Title: Predictive Modeling in AUV Navigation: A Perspective from Kalman Filtering

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.27422v1

Published Time: Tue, 31 Mar 2026 00:52:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 7

Markdown Content:
# Predictive Modeling in AUV Navigation: A Perspective from Kalman Filtering 

> *

Zizhan Tang 1, *Yao Liu 1, and Jessica Liu 2

> 1

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA 

> 2

Department of Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA Email: {ztang, jliu3548 }@usc.edu, liujiexi@seas.upenn.edu 

Abstract —We present a safety-oriented framework for au-tonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) that improves localiza-tion accuracy, enhances trajectory prediction, and supports efficient search operations during communication loss. Acoustic signals emitted by the AUV are detected by a network of fixed buoys, which compute Time-Difference-of-Arrival (TDOA) range-difference measurements serving as position observations. These observations are subsequently fused with a Kalman-based prediction model to obtain continuous, noise-robust state estimates. The combined method achieves significantly better localization precision and trajectory stability than TDOA-only baselines. Beyond real-time tracking, our framework offers targeted search-and-recovery capability by predicting post-disconnection motion and explicitly modeling uncertainty growth. The search module differentiates between continued navigation and propul-sion failure, allowing search resources to be deployed toward the most probable recovery region. Our framework fuses multi-buoy acoustic data with Kalman filtering and uncertainty propagation to maintain navigation accuracy and yield robust search-region definitions during communication loss. 

Index Terms —Predictive Trajectory Models and Motion Fore-casting; Continuous Localization Solutions; Sensor Fusion for Accurate 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) frequently operate in environments where GPS is unavailable and acoustic com-munication is intermittent or prone to loss. As a result, reliable localization becomes especially challenging when the vehicle unexpectedly loses communication with surface buoys or support vessels. In this work, we address the problem of search and recovery under communication loss , where the goal is to estimate the AUV’s most probable location after disconnection and construct uncertainty-driven search regions for recovery operations. We consider two practical operating assumptions: (1) the AUV may continue following its planned trajectory after communication loss with no mechanical failures, and (2) the AUV may lose propulsion at the moment of disconnection, resulting in passive drift driven by environmental disturbances. These assumptions define two motion models that guide our predictive estimation and search framework. We first describe the localization framework used to obtain the AUV’s last reliable state prior to communication loss. Clas-sical TDOA analyses such as Gezici’s survey [11] establish fundamental estimation limits for range-difference positioning, characterizing achievable accuracy under realistic noise. More recent underwater-specific formulations leverage optimization to improve robustness under multipath and noise, including the MM-based TDOA estimator of Li et al. [6], which outperforms classical least-squares approaches under high measurement uncertainty. In practical underwater systems, however, acoustic ranges are corrupted by multipath, timing jitter, and low-bandwidth communication effects, as characterized in Sto-janovic’s work on underwater acoustics [1]. These challenges motivate the use of sequential estimation techniques that smooth noisy observations and enforce temporal consistency. Modern underwater navigation frameworks fuse acoustic mea-surements with vehicle dynamics through a variety of esti-mation techniques, including invariant-EKF inertial–acoustic fusion [8], nonlinear observer designs for current-driven mo-tion [8], and graph-optimized INS/USBL/DVL integration [7]. Furthermore, Braginsky et al. [4] demonstrate an ASV–AUV ranging architecture in which periodic acoustic interrogations from a surface vehicle provide intermittent range updates that reduce drift during normal operation. Although such approaches improve robustness during normal operation, they fundamentally rely on the availability of continuous or inter-mittent measurements to remain observable. As summarized in the survey by Kinsey et al. [2], modern underwater navigation frameworks combine INS, DVL, and acoustic measurements to maintain bounded-error positioning during normal oper-ation. Recent work such as Tang et al. [12] demonstrates that inertial uncertainty grows rapidly when acoustic updates become sparse, reinforcing the need for predictive uncertainty modeling when external observations are unavailable. Search-and-rescue (SAR) modeling provides additional foundations for lost-target recovery, including probabilistic drift forecasting and search-effort allocation frameworks de-veloped for maritime operations. Classical Bayesian search theory [3], [13] provides principled strategies for allocating search effort, but presumes a known prior distribution over the target location. Drift-only maritime SAR models, surveyed by Selezin [5], model only passive drift under wind and ocean currents and cannot reconstruct pre-disconnection motion or account for AUV-specific failure modes. Thus, estimation methods characterize vehicle behavior while measurements are available, and SAR models cap-ture uncertainty growth once measurements are lost, but neither connects the last known state to the post-loss un-certainty evolution. This gap motivates the unified pre- and 

> arXiv:2603.27422v1 [cs.RO] 28 Mar 2026

post-disconnection framework proposed in this work. Our work connects acoustic sensing, sequential Bayesian es-timation, and uncertainty-driven search planning into a single, cohesive pipeline designed for search and recovery protocol during communication loss. Our contributions are as follows:  

> •

A multi-buoy acoustic localization module using a Chan-based closed-form TDOA estimator, providing geomet-rically consistent 3D position estimates without iterative optimization.  

> •

A sequential Kalman-filter prediction layer that fuses acoustic measurements with vehicle dynamics, yielding smooth, real-time trajectory estimates robust to noisy sensing.  

> •

A post-disconnection prediction model that explicitly propagates uncertainty over time, distinguishing between continued motion and propulsion failure and producing principled, time-varying search regions.  

> •

A unified safety-driven framework that links sensing, esti-mation, and adaptive search-region construction, enabling targeted recovery operations after communication loss. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section II introduces the system model and preliminary formulations. Section III presents the localization and prediction methods based on TDOA and Kalman filtering. Section IV describes the search model for disconnected AUVs. Simulation results are provided in Section V, followed by conclusions in Section VI. II. P RELIMINARIES 

We consider an underwater submersible whose position cannot be directly obtained via GPS due to severe signal attenuation. The submersible is equipped with an acoustic transmitter that periodically emits signals received by multiple buoys deployed at known locations. The Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) of these acoustic signals provides a measurement of the sub-mersible’s position, which is then fused with inertial dynamics through a Kalman filter for sequential state estimation under process and observation noise. The theoretical foundation for the estimation framework builds upon the classical linear filtering approach proposed by Kalman [9] and the hyperbolic multilateration solution introduced by Chan and Ho [10], which together form the basis for integrating acoustic localization with predictive state estimation in underwater environments. 

A. TDOA-Based Localization 

Let the true position of the submersible at time step t be denoted as 

pt = [ xt, y t, z t]⊤.

A set of N surface buoys are placed at fixed and known coordinates 

si = [ xi, y i, z i]⊤, i = 0 , . . . , N − 1,

where s0 serves as the reference station. Each buoy records the signal arrival time ti, and the TDOA between buoy i and the reference buoy is defined by 

∆ti = ti − t0.c ∆ti = ∥pt − si∥2 − ∥ pt − s0∥2 + εi, (1) where εi ∼ N (0 , R i) models measurement noise. 

Fig. 1: Illustration of the TDOA-based localization system. The submersible emits acoustic signals received by multiple buoys at different times, from which the travel time differences are used to estimate its position. Linearizing (1) around a nominal position p0 yields the linear system 

At pt = bt + εt, (2) where At ∈ R(N −1) ×3 and bt ∈ R(N −1) are determined by spatial geometry and partial derivatives of (1). The least-squares solution provides the observed position estimate 

ˆpt = ( A⊤ 

> t

At)−1A⊤ 

> t

bt. (3) This estimated position ˆpt serves as the measurement input to the Kalman filter described next. Eq. (2) provides an initial lin-earized TDOA estimate, which we refine using Chan’s closed-form multilateration [10] for improved geometric accuracy. 

B. Kalman Filtering Model 

The submersible’s motion is modeled as a discrete-time linear Gaussian system: 

xt+1 = F xt + G ut + wt, zt = H xt + vt, (4) where xt = [ xt, y t, z t, v x,t , v y,t , v z,t ]⊤ is the state vector, 

ut = [ ax,t , a y,t , a z,t ]⊤ is the control input (engine and current accelerations), and zt = ˆpt is the observation from the TDOA subsystem. The process and observation noise terms 

wt ∼ N (0 , Q ) and vt ∼ N (0 , R ) are zero-mean and mutually independent. For a constant-acceleration kinematic model, the state tran-sition and observation matrices are given by 

F =

I3 T I 3

03 I3



, G =

 12 T 2I3

T I 3



, H = [ I3 03],

where T is the sampling interval. Given the prior estimate ˆxt|t−1 and covariance Pt|t−1, the Kalman recursion proceeds as: 

Prediction Step: 

xt|t−1 = F ˆxt−1|t−1 + G ut−1, (5a) 

Pt|t−1 = F P t−1|t−1 F ⊤ + Q. (5b) Update Step: 

Kt = Pt|t−1 H⊤ H P t|t−1 H⊤ + R−1 , (6a) 

ˆxt|t = xt|t−1 + Kt

 zt − H xt|t−1

 , (6b) 

Pt|t = ( I − KtH) Pt|t−1. (6c) Equations (4) together with the Kalman Prediction and Update equations (5a)–(5b) and (6a)–(6c) define the recur-sive Bayesian estimator that fuses acoustic observations from TDOA with the dynamic state model of the submersible, yield-ing minimum-variance estimates of its position and velocity under Gaussian uncertainty assumptions. 

a) Kalman Operators for Succinctness. 

For succinctness, we define the Kalman Prediction and 

Kalman Update operators, denoted Predict( ·) and Update( ·),which compactly represent the full recursion in Eqs. (5a)–(5b) and Eqs. (6a)–(6c), respectively. These operators are used in Algorithm 1 to streamline notation while preserving the exact mathematical meaning of the standard Kalman filter update. III. M ETHODOLOGY 

In this section, we detail the mathematical formulation of the localization process based on the Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) technique and the subsequent derivation of the submersible’s position. We employ a closed-form solution following the framework of Chan’s algorithm [10], which pro-vides a computationally efficient and geometrically consistent approach to multilateration in three-dimensional space. 

A. TDOA Localization Derivation 

To derive the position of the submersible from Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) measurements, we follow the closed-form multilateration framework proposed by Chan [10]. The goal is to estimate the position vector p = [ x, y, z ]⊤ using acoustic arrival times at a set of fixed receivers. 

a) System Setup. 

Consider one reference receiver s0 = [ x0, y 0, z 0]⊤ and four other receivers si = [xi, y i, z i]⊤ for i = 1, 2, 3, 4. Each receiver records the signal arrival time ti, and the TDOA relative to the reference receiver is 

∆ti = ti − t0, i = 1 , 2, 3, 4.

Assuming a constant acoustic propagation speed c, the differ-ence in signal travel distances is 

c ∆ti = di − r0, di = ∥p − si∥2, r0 = ∥p − s0∥2.

b) Linearization. 

Squaring both sides of (1) and expanding the range expressions yield a set of nonlinear equations. Introducing ki = x2 

> i

+ y2 

> i

+

z2 

> i

and rearranging terms with respect to p gives the linear form: 

A p = r0 C + D, (7) where 

A =



x1 − x0 y1 − y0 z1 − z0

x2 − x0 y2 − y0 z2 − z0

x3 − x0 y3 − y0 z3 − z0

x4 − x0 y4 − y0 z4 − z0

 , C =



∆t1

∆t2

∆t3

∆t4

 ,

D = 12



k1 − k0 − c2(∆ t1)2

k2 − k0 − c2(∆ t2)2

k3 − k0 − c2(∆ t3)2

k4 − k0 − c2(∆ t4)2

 .

c) Closed-Form Solution. 

Equation (7) defines a linear system in the unknowns (x, y, z )

and r0. Following Chan’s algorithm, the position vector is expressed as a linear combination of the two least-squares solutions to Ax = C and Ax = D:

p = a r0 + b, a = A†C, b = A†D, (8) where A† denotes the Moore–Penrose pseudoinverse. 

d) Quadratic Solution for r0.

Substituting (8) into the distance constraint r0 = ∥p − s0∥2

leads to a quadratic equation in r0:

˜Ar 20 + ˜Br 0 + ˜C = 0 ,

where the coefficients are 

˜A = a21 + a22 + a23,

˜B = 2( a1b1 + a2b2 + a3b3 − a1x0 − a2y0 − a3z0),

˜C = ( x0 − b1)2 + ( y0 − b2)2 + ( z0 − b3)2.

The valid physical solution corresponds to the positive root: 

r0 = − ˜B +

p ˜B2 − 4 ˜A ˜C

2 ˜A .

Finally, substituting r0 into (8) yields the 3D position estimate 

p = [ x, y, z ]⊤.

e) Remarks. 

This closed-form formulation avoids iterative nonlinear opti-mization and provides robust geometric consistency for un-derwater localization. In practice, additional buoys can be incorporated to form an overdetermined system, solved via least squares to improve noise resilience and positioning accuracy. Compared with iterative least-squares solvers, Chan’s closed-form TDOA algorithm offers significant computational efficiency, requiring only matrix inversion and a quadratic evaluation, which makes it well suited for real-time embedded AUV applications. 

B. Kalman Filtering for Sequential Prediction 

The acoustic TDOA subsystem described above provides noisy position observations zt = ˆ pt at discrete time steps. To obtain smooth and temporally consistent state estimates, we employ a Kalman filter that fuses these measurements with a dynamic motion model of the submersible. This subsection outlines the full formulation, including initialization, recursive estimation, and motion equations consistent with the physical acceleration model. 

a) Initialization. 

The measurement noise covariance R represents uncertainty in the range-difference measurements produced by the TDOA subsystem. In practice, this noise reflects timing jitter, hy-drophone resolution, and small variations in acoustic prop-agation. Without loss of generality, we model these effects as independent Gaussian errors across buoys, resulting in a diagonal R matrix whose entries capture the variance of the TDOA measurement noise. This formulation allows the Kalman filter to appropriately weight the relative trust between model predictions and acoustic observations. The process noise covariance Q models uncertainty in the submersible’s motion dynamics, such as unmodeled accel-erations or disturbances from ocean currents. Its magnitude and structure are chosen based on prior knowledge of the environment and vehicle behavior, and can be tuned to reflect different operating conditions. 

b) Kalman Recursion. 

The sequential state estimation follows the standard predic-tion and measurement-update equations already defined in Section II, specifically Eqs. (5a)–(5b) and Eqs. (6a)–(6c). These equations govern the propagation of the prior state, the incorporation of acoustic measurements, and the update of the state covariance without rewriting them here. 

c) State-Space Formulation. 

The submersible’s motion is modeled as a constant-velocity linear system with acceleration input: 

xt+1 = F xt + G ut + wt, zt = H xt + vt,

where xt = [ xt, y t, z t, v x,t , v y,t , v z,t ]⊤ represents position and velocity states, and ut encodes the engine acceleration and ocean-current disturbances. The transition and observation matrices follow the standard constant-velocity model with sampling interval T :

F =

I3 T I 3

03 I3



, G =

" T 2 

> 2

I3

T I 3

#

, H = [ I3 03].

d) Physical Interpretation. 

This formulation captures the coupled evolution of position and velocity driven by acceleration inputs from both propul-sion and environmental currents. The Kalman filter adap-tively fuses TDOA-derived position measurements with model predictions, yielding minimum-variance estimates suitable for real-time underwater tracking. 

Fig. 2: Mechanical interpretation of the submersible motion under combined engine and ocean-current accelerations. IV. S EARCH MODEL 

Following the predictive modeling phase, we analyze the search and recovery framework designed for cases in which the submersible loses communication with the surface buoys or host vessel. After disconnection, no new observations are received, and the Kalman filter propagates the last state estimate forward to predict the location. This prediction guides rescue deployment and defines the most probable recovery region. 

A. Disconnection Condition 

A disconnection event is defined as the moment when no valid acoustic signal is detected within a time interval exceeding the nominal sampling period. At this instant, the most recent filtered state ˆxt|t and its covariance Pt|t are stored as initial conditions for autonomous prediction: 

xt0 = ˆ xt|t, Pt0 = Pt|t.

From that point onward, the system state evolves according to the same discrete-time dynamics defined in Section III-A0e. The process noise covariance Q governs the rate at which uncertainty increases over time, forming an expanding search radius as prediction continues. 

B. Scenario 1: No Mechanical Failures (Predetermined Nav-igation) 

This scenario represents the case in which the submersible loses communication but continues normal operation, expe-riencing no mechanical issues apart from the failure of the communication link. The vehicle maintains its predetermined navigation plan—for example, following a sightseeing route along the seabed of the Ionian Sea—where velocity and engine acceleration at each time step are predefined. The last available observation before disconnection is pro-cessed through the Kalman filter to compute the posterior optimal estimate of the submersible’s last known position. From this state, the prediction model extrapolates the next position using deterministic dynamics: 

xt+1 = F xt + G ut, (9) where ut denotes the control input determined by the propul-sion command at the last connected moment. Because no new Fig. 3: Illustration of the search process under communication loss. The predicted trajectory (red) is generated by the Kalman filter, while the blue curve denotes the true motion. The shaded circles illustrate the evolving search regions under different operating conditions. measurements are available, the filter performs only the predic-tion step; the prior estimate becomes the next posterior. This recursive propagation continues along the planned trajectory until reconnection or recovery. Within several minutes after disconnection, the prediction error remains small—typically within a few meters—since the system follows a known, deterministic path. The predicted positions, together with the corresponding uncertainty ellipses derived from Pt, define high-confidence search zones that rescue teams can prioritize. 

C. Scenario 2: Loss of Propulsion 

In this scenario, the submersible experiences a mechanical failure such as power loss or fuel depletion immediately before or during disconnection. Although the last transmitted state includes the final measured velocity and acceleration, propulsion ceases, and the submersible’s subsequent motion is governed by environmental disturbances such as ocean currents. The post-disconnection dynamics are modeled as a random walk process: 

xt+1 = F xt + wt, wt ∼ N (0 , Q ), (10) where wt captures random acceleration induced by ocean currents. The covariance Pt expands progressively as the system propagates without corrective measurements, defining a time-varying uncertainty ellipsoid that enlarges the search region. Although deterministic prediction is no longer reliable, the probabilistic framework still provides a spatial confidence map from which the rescue operation can be planned. The predicted mean ˆxt+k serves as the center of the search area, while the corresponding covariance determines its extent. Over time, the search radius grows approximately with ptr( Pt+k), where 

tr( ·) denotes the matrix trace (the sum of diagonal elements), quantifying the trade-off between elapsed time and recovery probability. Both scenarios demonstrate that the Kalman-based search model provides a principled mechanism for estimating post-disconnection trajectories. By leveraging the last known mo-tion state, it enables targeted, confidence-driven search oper-ations that balance coverage efficiency with prediction uncer-tainty. 

Algorithm 1 Real-Time Acoustic Localization and Kalman Filtering Pipeline 

Require: Buoy positions B; acoustic speed c; sampling inter-val T ; Kalman model (F, G, H, Q, R )

Ensure: Filtered state estimate ˆxt|t 

> 1:

Initialize Kalman filter with ˆx0|0 and P0|0 

> 2:

last packet time ← 0 

> 3:

while acoustic packets received do  

> 4:

if acoustic packets received then  

> 5:

Compute TDOA: ∆ti = ti − t0 

> 6:

Compute Chan multilateration estimate ˆpt 

> 7:

last packet time ← t 

> 8:

end if  

> 9:

Kalman Prediction Step  

> 10:

(xt|t−1, P t|t−1) ← Predict(ˆ xt−1|t−1, P t−1|t−1, ut−1) 

> 11:

if acoustic packets received then  

> 12:

Kalman Update Step  

> 13:

(ˆ xt|t, P t|t) ← Update( xt|t−1, P t|t−1, ˆpt) 

> 14:

else  

> 15:

No update — continue prediction  

> 16:

ˆxt|t = xt|t−1 

> 17:

Pt|t = Pt|t−1 

> 18:

end if  

> 19:

end while  

> 20:

Post-Disconnection Search Model  

> 21:

(Scenario 1: Continued Navigation)  

> 22:

xt+1 = F xt + Gut 

> 23:

(Scenario 2: Propulsion Failure)  

> 24:

xt+1 = F xt + wt, wt ∼ N (0 , Q )

V. S IMULATION RESULTS 

We conducted simulations to evaluate the proposed local-ization, prediction, and search framework under consistent experimental conditions. Five buoys were fixed at coor-dinates [−800 , −200 , 3] , [−200 , −800 , 0] , [−800 , −1000 , 0] ,

[0 , 0, 0] , and [−500 , −500 , −500] . A total of 1000 test points were uniformly distributed in 3D space, starting from 

[−100 , −100 , −50] with intervals of 60 m along the x- and y-axes and 30 m along the z-axis. The sampling interval was 10 s 

for all experiments. This configuration was used consistently across the TDOA localization, Kalman filter prediction, and search model evaluations. 

A. Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) 

Figure 4 shows that the TDOA algorithm produces position estimates closely aligned with ground truth across all test Fig. 4: Localization results for 1000 test points. Blue circles denote true positions; yellow markers represent TDOA esti-mates. points, demonstrating high localization fidelity under the given buoy configuration. 

Fig. 5: Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of Mean Absolute Error (MAE) for Submarine Localization. The CDF curve illustrates the probability that the localization error is less than or equal to a given MAE threshold. Nearly all test points have errors below 4 m, demonstrating high localization accuracy. Figure 5 shows the Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) between the ground-truth and TDOA-estimated positions. The CDF begins at zero and approaches one, representing the probability that the localiza-tion error is below a given threshold. Nearly all test points exhibit MAE under 4 m , indicating that the TDOA-based localization closely matches the true positions and provides reliable accuracy under the simulated buoy configuration. The resulting position estimates serve as the measurement input for subsequent trajectory prediction via Kalman fil-tering, forming the foundation for the integrated localiza-tion–prediction pipeline evaluated in the following section. 

B. Kalman Filter Prediction 

Building on the verified localization accuracy, we next assess the Kalman filter’s ability to refine and predict the AUV’s motion in the presence of measurement noise. As shown in Figure 6, the Kalman filter produces a smooth and consistent trajectory, effectively suppressing the fluctuations observed in 

Fig. 6: Simulation result of the prediction model. The real trajectory, TDOA measurements, and Kalman filter predictions are shown together for comparison. the raw TDOA measurements. This demonstrates that the filter successfully fuses sequential observations with the underlying motion model to generate reliable state estimates. As time progresses, raw TDOA estimates drift further from the true trajectory, whereas the Kalman filter remains well aligned with ground truth by suppressing accumulated noise and uncertainty. 

Fig. 7: MSE comparison between the TDOA model and Kalman filter prediction. The Kalman filter achieves consis-tently lower error across time steps. Figure 7 provides a quantitative comparison of mean squared error (MSE) for both TDOA-only and Kalman-filtered predictions. The Kalman filter consistently achieves lower error across all time steps, demonstrating its robustness against observation noise and its superior trajectory prediction perfor-mance. 

C. Search Model under Communication Loss 

Having validated the localization and prediction subsystems, we next evaluate the search and recovery model under communication-loss scenarios. Figures 8 and 9 illustrate the performance of the search model under communication loss at different time steps. For short-term disconnections (Figure 8), the Kalman-based prediction remains closely aligned with the actual submersible trajectory, demonstrating the framework’s ability to guide rescue efforts within a constrained search region. For longer disconnections Fig. 8: Simulation of the search process when disconnection occurs at t = 50 s . The predicted trajectory (red) closely follows the real trajectory (blue) along the predetermined route. 

Fig. 9: Simulation of the search process when disconnection occurs at t = 80 s . The divergence between predicted and real positions increases with time as uncertainty accumulates. (Figure 9), the predicted and true positions gradually diverge as uncertainty accumulates, yet the model continues to provide a principled estimate of the most probable search area. Al-though the discrepancy between predicted and true trajectories increases over time, the Kalman-based predictor continues to deliver reliable and practically meaningful position estimates. This capability supports targeted rescue operations even during extended communication loss, highlighting the framework’s resilience to real-world uncertainty. The simulation results demonstrate that the integrated framework enables adaptation of search strategies in response to evolving uncertainty, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of recovery operations. VI. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 

This paper presented an integrated framework for localization, prediction, and search for AUVs under uncertain commu-nication conditions. Combining TDOA multilateration with Kalman filtering yields accurate localization and stable trajec-tory prediction. The search model captures how uncertainty grows after disconnection, enabling adaptive search-region planning. While the current framework assumes idealized signal con-ditions, real-world scenarios introduce additional challenges such as state noise, varying sound-speed profiles, and nonuni-form buoy placement. Future work will incorporate adaptive calibration, stochastic current modeling, and noise estimation to improve the real-to-sim gap. Extending the framework to cooperative multi-AUV missions will further enhance coverage efficiency and resilience to signal loss. We believe that researchers in underwater navigation, acous-tic sensing, and predictive control will find this framework valuable, as it demonstrates a systematic way to address model uncertainty and enhance safety in real-world AUV operations. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

This work extends our submission to the 2024 Mathematical Contest in Modeling (MCM). We thank COMAP for organiz-ing the competition and granting permission to further develop this research, as well as the MCM problem committee and judges for their valuable feedback. REFERENCES [1] M. Stojanovic, “Underwater Acoustic Communications,” Wiley Encyclo-pedia of Electrical and Electronics Engineering , pp. 1–12, 2009, doi: 10.1002/047134608X.W8185. [2] J. Kinsey, R. Eustice, and L. Whitcomb, “A Survey of Underwater Vehicle Navigation: Recent Advances and New Challenges,” Marine Technology Society Journal , vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 21–31, 2006. [3] L. D. Stone, “Search and Screening: General Principles with Historical Applications,” SIAM Review , vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 533–539, Oct. 1981, doi: 10.1137/1023109. [4] B. Braginsky, A. Baruch, and H. Guterman, “Tracking of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles Using an Autonomous Surface Vehicle with Ranger Interrogator System,” Proc. IEEE OCEANS , pp. 1–5, Sep. 2016, doi: 10.1109/OCEANS.2016.7761059. [5] Y. Y. Selezin, “Review of Search and Rescue Drifting Object at Sea Possible Location Estimation Techniques,” Vestnik Gosu-darstvennogo Universiteta Morskogo i Rechnogo Flota imeni Admirala S. O. Makarova , vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1011–1025, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.21821/2309-5180-2019-11-6-1011-1025. [6] S. Li, H. Sun, and H. Esmaiel, “Underwater TDOA Acoustical Location Based on Majorization–Minimization Optimization,” Sensors , vol. 20, no. 16, p. 4457, Aug. 2020, doi: 10.3390/s20164457. [7] X. Li, Y. Li, Z. Deng, and X. Xu, “A Robust INS/USBL/DVL Integrated Navigation Algorithm Using Graph Optimization,” Sensors , vol. 23, no. 2, p. 916, 2023, doi: 10.3390/s23020916. [8] J. Mangelson, R. Beard, and M. Potokar, “Invariant Extended Kalman Filtering for Underwater Navigation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 5792–5799, Jul. 2021, doi: 10.1109/LRA.2021.3085167. [9] R. E. Kalman, “A New Approach to Linear Filtering and Prediction Problems,” Journal of Basic Engineering , vol. 82, no. 1, pp. 35–45, 1960, doi: 10.1115/1.3662552. [10] Y. Chan and K.-M. Ho, “A simple and efficient estimator for hyperbolic location,” IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing , vol. 42, no. 8, pp. 1905–1915, Aug. 1994, doi: 10.1109/78.301830. [11] S. Gezici, “A Survey on Wireless Position Estimation,” Wireless Per-sonal Communications , vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 263–282, Oct. 2007, doi: 10.1007/s11277-007-9375-z. [12] H. Tang, X. Zhang, and S. Wang, “Underwater Inertial Error Rectifica-tion with Limited Acoustic Observations,” Satellite Navigation , vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 1–18, 2024, doi: 10.1186/s43020-023-00123-4. [13] L. D. Stone, Theory of Optimal Search . Japan Society of Medical Entomology and Zoology, 1975.