Title: Tora3: Trajectory-Guided Audio-Video Generation with Physical Coherence

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.09057v1

Published Time: Mon, 13 Apr 2026 00:50:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
# Tora3: Trajectory-Guided Audio-Video Generation with Physical Coherence 

## Junchao Liao 1,* Zhenghao Zhang 1,* Xiangyu Meng 1 Litao Li 1 Ziying Zhang 1

## Siyu Zhu 2 Long Qin 1,† Weizhi Wang 11Alibaba Cloud Computing 2Fudan University 

{liaojunchao.ljc,zhangzhenghao.zzh,xulei.mxy,lilitao.llt,zhangziying.zzy,ql362507,wangweizhi.wwz }@alibaba-inc.com, siyuzhu@fudan.edu.cn ① ② ③ ④① ② ③ ④① ② ③ ④① ② ③ ④

[V] "Static wide shot: silver car speeds bottom-left to upper-right on sunlit tree-lined road, golden hour, realistic 4K." [A] "Car engine roaring, tire noise." [V] "Locked medium-close documentary shot: seal on wet rocks slaps puddle a few times, with realistic splashes and droplets." [A] "Wet flipper slaps with small splashes." [V] "Side medium shot: carpenter rhythmically hammers nail into plank, cinematic 4K." [A] "Steady hammer striking nail into plank."         

> ①②③④⑤
> ①②③④⑤
> ⑤⑤⑤⑤

Figure 1. Examples generated by Tora3. Tora3 generates audio-video content that follows prescribed trajectories with improved physical coherence, producing more plausible motion and better motion-sound alignment. Long trajectories are segmented for clarity. Please refer to the supplementary video for more examples. 

*Equal contribution. 

†Corresponding author. 

1

> arXiv:2604.09057v1 [cs.CV] 10 Apr 2026

## Abstract 

Audio-video (AV) generation has recently made strong progress in perceptual quality and multimodal coherence, yet generating content with plausible motion-sound rela-tions remains challenging. Existing methods often pro-duce object motions that are visually unstable and sounds that are only loosely aligned with salient motion or contact events, largely because they lack an explicit motion-aware structure shared by video and audio generation. We present Tora3, a trajectory-guided AV generation framework that improves physical coherence by using object trajectories as a shared kinematic prior. Rather than treating trajec-tories as a video-only control signal, Tora3 uses them to jointly guide visual motion and acoustic events. Specifi-cally, we design a trajectory-aligned motion representation for video, a kinematic-audio alignment module driven by trajectory-derived second-order kinematic states, and a hy-brid flow matching scheme that preserves trajectory fidelity in trajectory-conditioned regions while maintaining local coherence elsewhere. We further curate PAV, a large-scale AV dataset emphasizing motion-relevant patterns with au-tomatically extracted motion annotations. Extensive exper-iments show that Tora3 improves motion realism, motion-sound synchronization, and overall AV generation quality over strong open-source baselines. 

## Introduction 

Recent advances in generative modeling have substantially improved video synthesis across multiple modalities, in-cluding text-to-video (T2V) [4, 25, 46, 62], audio-to-video (A2V) [9, 40, 49], and video-to-audio (V2A) [8, 15, 16]. More recently, unified text-to-audio-video (T2AV) mod-els [11, 13, 19, 31, 34] have emerged, aiming to jointly syn-thesize visual and acoustic content from a single prompt. Commercial systems such as Veo3 [13], Sora2 [34], and Wan2.5 [11] suggest that high-fidelity multimodal genera-tion is becoming increasingly practical. Despite this progress, current T2AV generation is still driven primarily by semantic alignment rather than explicit motion-sound modeling. As a result, even strong open-source models [19, 31, 47] often produce visually implausi-ble motion or audio that is only weakly synchronized with salient physical events [21]. In the visual domain, generated objects may follow inconsistent trajectories, exhibit implau-sible falling patterns, or undergo abrupt accelerations that break temporal continuity [6, 14]. In the acoustic domain, generated sound is often detached from the underlying mo-tion. Impact sounds may miss the moment of contact, sound intensity may fail to reflect interaction strength, and contin-uous sounds such as sliding or driving often do not evolve with changes in motion. These failures are especially no-Tora3 Ovi          

> ②
> ①②
> ①
> "Shoe rhythmically tapping floor"
> ③①②③
> ①②③
> ③
> Figure 2. Effect of trajectory guidance on audio-video synchro-nization. Tora3 better aligns footstep sounds with shoe-ground contact. The red arrow indicates the trajectory from 2.5 to 3.0 s (1⃝,2⃝) and from 3.5 to 4.0 s ( 3⃝).

ticeable in interaction-heavy scenes and reduce realism. Ex-isting T2AV methods typically align audio and video at a high semantic level, but lack an explicit intermediate rep-resentation that constrains both modalities under a shared motion-aware structure. In this work, we focus on a practical notion of physical coherence in audio-video generation: whether generated object motion follows plausible trajectory-level dynamics, whether salient sound events are temporally aligned with motion or contact, and whether audio intensity evolves co-herently with motion strength. We argue that object tra-jectories provide an effective and practical interface for in-troducing such structure into audio-video generation. Tra-jectories compactly describe where objects are and how they move over time, while exposing kinematic cues such as event timing, motion intensity, and temporal evolution. From this perspective, trajectories offer a natural shared representation for both modalities. They constrain plausi-ble motion in video and indicate when sounds should oc-cur and how their amplitude and temporal structure should evolve. Although trajectories do not fully specify real-world physics, they provide a lightweight and interpretable prior for improving motion-sound coherence in multimodal generation. Figure 2 shows that trajectory guidance better aligns visual motion with corresponding audio events, im-proving cross-modal synchronization. Motivated by these observations, we present Tora3, a trajectory-guided audio-video generation framework that improves physical coherence through shared kinematic con-ditioning (see Figure 1 for examples). Rather than using tra-jectories as an auxiliary control signal, Tora3 treats them as a shared kinematic prior to jointly guide video motion and audio generation. Tora3 has three key components. First, for the video branch, we propose an efficient trajectory-aligned motion representation that reuses first-frame latents 2along sparse trajectories to inject motion cues directly into the latent space without an explicit motion encoder. This design avoids unnecessary distribution shift and preserves consistent motion conditioning throughout the AV pipeline. Second, for the audio branch, we design a kinematic-audio alignment module. Inspired by second-order motion repre-sentations [30, 60], we derive compact kinematic descrip-tors, including position, velocity, acceleration, and their magnitudes, from trajectories and inject them into the au-dio diffusion model via cross-attention. These trajectory-derived kinematic states provide direct cues for event tim-ing and motion intensity, enabling sound generation whose loudness and temporal evolution better follow the underly-ing motion. Third, we introduce a hybrid flow matching 

mechanism with separate probability flows for trajectory and background regions. This mechanism preserves faith-ful trajectory-guided motion during early denoising while maintaining local appearance coherence during later re-finement. To support training and evaluation, we further curate PAV, a large-scale audio-video dataset containing 460k video clips that emphasize motion-relevant patterns and provide automatically extracted motion annotations for trajectory-aware and kinematics-aware AV generation. Our main contributions are as follows: • We propose Tora3 , a trajectory-guided audio-video gen-eration framework that uses object trajectories as a shared kinematic prior to jointly guide visual motion and acous-tic events, improving physical coherence in generated AV content. • We develop a unified trajectory-grounded generation framework with three key components: (1) a trajectory-aligned motion representation for direct video latent con-ditioning, (2) a kinematic-audio alignment module based on trajectory-derived position, velocity, and acceleration cues, and (3) a hybrid flow matching scheme that pre-serves motion fidelity while maintaining local consis-tency. • We build PAV, a 460k-clip motion-centric AV dataset with automatic motion annotations, and show through ex-tensive experiments that Tora3 consistently outperforms competitive baselines in video quality, trajectory faithful-ness, and motion-sound coherence. 

## Related work 

Trajectory-Controlled Video Generation 

Trajectory-controlled video generation has attracted in-creasing attention for enabling fine-grained manipulation of object motion and scene dynamics. Prior works [10, 27, 28, 41, 51, 59, 63] inject motion cues such as op-tical flow [41, 59], point tracks [51, 63, 64], or tempo-rally varying bounding boxes [12, 27] into diffusion mod-els via dedicated encoders, adapters, or attention-based fu-sion modules. To better represent complex motions, some methods [48, 54] further explore 3D trajectories or depth-augmented keypoint maps, while others [10, 17] directly use pretrained base models without architectural modifica-tions to improve scalability. Overall, these approaches sub-stantially improve visual motion controllability and realism under trajectory guidance. However, existing trajectory-controlled methods mainly target video-only generation and do not address joint audio-video synthesis. In contrast, Tora3 extends trajectory guidance to unified audio-video generation by using trajectories as a shared kinematic prior for both motion control and audio-motion alignment. 

Audio-Video Generation 

Most prior unified audio-video generation methods [29, 39, 50, 56, 61] synthesize ambient sounds using dual-branch architectures, in which audio and video streams are mod-eled separately and fused through cross-attention or fea-ture concatenation. Large-scale systems such as Veo3 show strong text-conditioned joint generation quality, and recent open-source models such as UniVerse-1 [47], Ovi [31], and LTX-2 [19] largely follow the same dual-backbone fusion paradigm. JoVA [20] further enables direct cross-modal interaction for human-centric content. Nevertheless, these methods often struggle to generate dynamic sequences in which audio remains well aligned with object motion and interaction timing. In contrast, Tora3 introduces trajectory-derived kinematic conditioning into joint AV generation. Specifically, we use object trajectories as a shared kinematic prior, combining trajectory-guided motion control in the video branch with kinematic-audio alignment in the audio branch. This design improves motion-sound coherence by aligning sound events and intensity changes with trajectory-level motion dynamics. 

## Methods 

Overview 

Tora3 is an audio-video generation framework built on a twin diffusion transformer architecture with separate video and audio DiT backbones, following Ovi [31]. It uses object trajectories as a shared kinematic prior across both modal-ities and consists of three components: trajectory-aligned motion representation for video, kinematic-audio alignment 

module driven by second-order kinematic states for audio, and hybrid flow matching for preserving motion fidelity and local coherence. The overall framework is illustrated in Fig-ure 3. 

Trajectory-aligned Motion Representation 

Following Tora [63] and Tora2 [64], we use object trajecto-ries to represent both local motion cues and longer-range temporal evolution. A common strategy in controllable 3Video VAE Video Clip T5 Text Mel Spectrogram +noise Audio VAE +noise Text Emb. Fusion Block Hybrid Flow Matching Video Loss Flow Matching Audio Loss Video Latent Audio Latent Motion Injection Kinematic Encoder Kinematic Feature Timestep   

> 𝑡
> Timestep Emb. Timestep Emb.  Self A nNorm Self A nNorm Add & Norm FFN Audio Latent Text Emb. Video Latent Timestep Emb. Timestep Emb. Text Emb. Kinematic Feature Add & Norm FFN Cross A nCross A nCross A nCross A nCross A n
> Object Trajectories

Figure 3. The overall architecture of Tora3. Object trajectories provide a shared kinematic prior for both video and audio generation. The video branch uses trajectory-aligned motion injection, while the audio branch incorporates trajectory-derived kinematic features to better align sound with motion. Hybrid flow matching further improves trajectory-guided generation by balancing motion fidelity and local coherence. 

video generation is to first encode trajectories with an aux-iliary motion encoder and then inject the resulting features into the generative backbone. However, directly adopting such a design in a unified audio-video framework is sub-optimal. Since both audio and video branches are large DiT backbones, introducing an additional motion encoder would further entangle optimization and make it harder to preserve a stable motion representation across modalities. In addi-tion, extra encoding layers may attenuate sparse trajectory signals before they reach the backbone, which can reduce motion fidelity. To avoid these issues, Tora3 directly maps trajectories into the latent space of the video backbone without intro-ducing a dedicated motion encoder. We follow a standard image-to-video pipeline. Let z ∈ Rh×w×d denote the la-tent of the first frame, obtained by a pretrained VAE en-coder [24], where h and w are the latent spatial dimensions and d is the channel dimension. Let x0 ∈ Rf ×h×w×d de-note the clean video latent sequence, where f is the num-ber of latent frames and the first frame corresponds to the conditioning image. Let eT denote the full object trajec-tories in pixel space. We apply temporal average pool-ing to eT to match the sampled video frames, obtaining 

T ∈ Rf ×N ×2. We further map T to latent coordinates by scaling with the VAE downsampling factor and apply-ing nearest-neighbor rounding, yielding T ′, where each 

T ′ 

> i,n

= ( pi,n , q i,n ) ∈ { 0, . . . , h − 1} × { 0, . . . , w − 1}.Here, pi,n and qi,n denote the row and column index, re-spectively, of object n at frame i on the latent grid. We con-struct a trajectory-conditioned latent xtraj ∈ Rf ×h×w×d by propagating first-frame object features along the trajecto-ries. Specifically, for each object trajectory, we replace the latent feature at the trajectory-aligned location in frame i

with the corresponding first-frame feature: 

xtraj [i, p i,n , q i,n , :] = z[p0,n , q 0,n , :] , i ∈ { 1, . . . , f − 1}.

(1) If multiple trajectories map to the same latent location, we randomly select one. All non-trajectory locations in xtraj 

remain zero, except in the first frame, where they are over-written by z. This design is motivated by two empiri-cal observations: First, VAE latents are spatially smooth, so nearby spatial locations tend to share similar local ap-pearance statistics [38]. Second, relocating latent features to nearby trajectory-aligned positions often preserves local object cues [52]. Together, these observations make first-frame latent propagation a direct and effective way to in-ject motion cues into the native latent space. This strategy provides an explicit trajectory-aligned conditioning signal while avoiding the additional feature transformation intro-duced by a separate motion encoder. 

Kinematic-Audio Alignment 

Semantic conditioning alone is insufficient for realistic motion-dependent audio synchronization. In monaural au-dio generation, motion-sound alignment depends heavily on temporal structure, spectral texture, and amplitude evolu-tion, all of which are often correlated with object motion. Without explicit kinematic cues, the model must infer these relations implicitly from visual features, often leading to in-accurate timing and mismatched intensity. 

Kinematic Feature Representation. To introduce explicit motion-aware structure into audio generation, we condition the audio branch on compact kinematic features derived from object trajectories. These features form a second-order kinematic state, since an object’s motion can be naturally described by its position, velocity, and acceleration. To-4gether, they provide informative cues about when interac-tions occur, how strong they are, and how acoustic energy may evolve over time. Given temporal-downsampled trajectories T ∈

Rf ×N ×2, we normalize the 2D coordinates by the longer side of the image and denote the normalized position of object n at frame i as ri,n ∈ [0 , 1] 2. These normalized positions provide a coarse spatial anchor and useful scene context, such as whether an object is close to the ground or suspended in the air, which may help infer the underlying interaction type and associated sound. We estimate velocity and acceleration using second-order central differences for interior frames, with forward and backward differences at the boundaries. Let τ = 1 /fps denote the time interval between consecutive frames. The velocity and acceleration at frame i for trajectory point n

are approximated as 

vi,n ≈ ri+1 ,n − ri−1,n 

2τ , (2) 

ai,n ≈ ri+1 ,n − 2ri,n + ri−1,n 

τ 2 , (3) valid for interior frames i ∈ { 1, . . . , f − 2}. This provides stable, second-order accurate estimates of trajectory-level motion. We explicitly retain both vector components and magnitudes to disentangle direction from strength. The velocity vector characterizes the mode of interac-tion, for example, predominantly vertical motion for falling and impact, or horizontal motion for sliding and rolling, which can be related to different sound patterns. Its mag-nitude ∥vi,n ∥2 reflects motion intensity. Acceleration ai,n 

is particularly informative for contact-dominant events such as impacts, abrupt stops, or braking, where rapid changes in motion often correlate with stronger and more salient acous-tic responses. Its direction indicates whether motion is in-creasing or decelerating, while its magnitude ∥ai,n ∥2 pro-vides a useful cue for event strength. We use ∥vi,n ∥2 and ∥ai,n ∥2 as explicit motion-intensity cues that help the model align audio amplitude and temporal structure with the underlying motion. This improves opti-mization and helps the model distinguish appropriate sound behaviors, such as impact-like transients versus sustained scraping or rolling sounds. We combine these terms into an 8D kinematic feature for each object and frame: 

ϕi,n = r⊤

> i,n

, v⊤

> i,n

, a⊤

> i,n

, ∥vi,n ∥2, ∥ai,n ∥2

⊤ ∈ R8. (4) This representation explicitly exposes the key kinematic factors relevant to motion-aware sound generation, namely spatial context, interaction mode, and motion intensity. Since these terms may span several orders of magnitude, we apply signed log-compression before encoding. Let 

di,n = v⊤

> i,n

, a⊤

> i,n

, ∥vi,n ∥2, ∥ai,n ∥2

⊤ , (5) 

˜di,n = sign( di,n ) ⊙ log 10 (1 + |di,n |). (6) We then encode the normalized kinematic feature as 

˜ϕi,n = Ek



Norm 

h

r⊤

> i,n

, ˜d⊤

> i,n

i⊤ 

, (7) yielding latent kinematic tokens in Rd that match the em-bedding dimension of the audio transformer, where Ek de-notes a three-layer MLP. 

Audio-Kinematic Fusion. The encoded kinematic tokens 

Hkin = { ˜ϕi,n } ∈ Rf ×N ×d are injected into the audio branch of the twin-DiT architecture to explicitly modulate audio generation with motion information. Specifically, within each audio transformer block, an auxiliary cross-attention layer is introduced after the self-attention layer, with audio latent states as queries and kinematic tokens as keys and values. We first project Hkin to key and value ten-sors. For clarity, we omit the multi-head notation: 

Kkin = Norm( Hkin W (K) 

> kin

), Vkin = Hkin W (V ) 

> kin

. (8) To preserve temporal alignment, we apply RoPE [42] to the temporal dimension of Kkin , reshape Kkin and Vkin to 

R(f N )×d, and apply RoPE to audio latents Ha ∈ RLa×d,with temporal indices scaled by f /L a, following Ovi. The kinematic-aware update ∆Ha is computed as: 

Qa = Norm( HaW (Q) 

> a

), (9) 

∆Ha = Softmax 

 QaK⊤

> kin

√d



Vkin . (10) To prevent kinematic cues from dominating semantic text conditions during early training, we further employ a learn-able gating mechanism. The final hidden state H′ 

> a

is updated through a residual connection modulated by a sigmoid-gated scalar σ(γ), where γ is a learnable param-eter initialized to a negative value: 

H′ 

> a

= Ha + σ(γ) · ∆Ha. (11) This design allows Tora3 to adaptively balance semantic context and motion-aware conditioning, producing audio that is both semantically appropriate and better aligned with the visual motion. 

Hybrid Flow Matching 

Directly reusing first-frame latents along trajectories is effective for injecting motion cues, but applying the same construction uniformly to all spatial locations can be limiting. We observe that different regions play dif-ferent roles during denoising. Trajectory-conditioned regions benefit from stronger appearance anchoring to preserve motion guidance, whereas non-trajectory regions benefit from the standard flow to maintain flex-ible scene refinement. Motivated by this observation, 5we propose Hybrid Flow Matching , which modifies the probability flow inside the trajectory region Ωtraj =

{(i, p i,n , q i,n ) | i ∈ { 0, . . . , f − 1}, n ∈ { 0, . . . , N − 1}} .

while preserving the standard flow outside it. Outside Ωtraj , we follow the standard Flow Matching construction on the clean video latent x0:

xt = (1 − t)x0 + tϵ, v = ϵ − x0, (12) where t ∈ [0 , 1] denotes the flow matching timestep, ϵ ∼N (0 , I ) denotes the standard Gaussian endpoint, and v de-notes the target velocity field for unconstrained regions. Inside Ωtraj , we replace the standard noise endpoint with the trajectory-conditioned latent xtraj , yielding 

xt = (1 − t)x0 + tx traj , v = xtraj − x0. (13) Intuitively, this preserves the standard denoising behav-ior in unconstrained regions while anchoring trajectory-conditioned regions to the injected motion prior. To implement this hybrid construction, we use the binary indicator mask M ∈ { 0, 1}f ×h×w associated with Ωtraj , de-fined by M [i, p, q ] = 1[( i, p, q ) ∈ Ωtraj ]. The resulting la-tent input and target velocity field are defined as 

xt = (1 −M )⊙ (1 −t)x0 +tϵ +M ⊙ (1 −t)x0 +tx traj ,

(14) 

v = (1 − M ) ⊙ (ϵ − x0) + M ⊙ (xtraj − x0). (15) Here, the mask M is broadcast along the channel dimen-sion to Rf ×h×w×d. At inference time, we use the same trajectory-conditioned latent construction to initialize the flow-matching process at t = 1 , with x1 = (1 − M ) ⊙

ϵ + M ⊙ xtraj .This construction ensures that the latent input at each spatial location is consistent with the corresponding veloc-ity target used for supervision. In practice, it helps preserve trajectory-guided motion while reducing local inconsisten-cies around trajectory-conditioned regions. During training, we keep the audio objective unchanged from Ovi and only replace its original video loss with a region-balanced objective to better balance the sparse tra-jectory region and its complement. To ensure smooth boundary handling, we use a soft mask Msoft obtained by Gaussian blurring the binary mask M . The modified video loss is defined as 

Lvideo = λout Lout + λtraj Ltraj , (16) where λout = λtraj = 0 .5. The loss terms are defined as 

Lout =

P   (1 − Msoft ) ⊙ (ˆ v − v)2P(1 − Msoft ) + δ , (17) 

Ltraj =

P   Msoft ⊙ (ˆ v − v)2P Msoft + δ , (18) where δ = 10 −8 is a small constant for numerical stability. This equal weighting prevents the sparse trajectory region from being overwhelmed by the dominant non-trajectory area, allowing the model to learn localized motion control and global appearance generation in a more balanced man-ner. Following Ovi, the final training objective combines the video and audio losses with weights 0.85 and 0.15 , re-spectively: 

Lfinal = 0 .85 Lvideo + 0 .15 LOvi audio , (19) where LOvi audio denotes the original audio loss used in Ovi. 

## Experiments 

Experimental Setup 

Datasets. We construct PAV from filtered high-quality subsets of VGGSound [7], ACAV-100M [26], Open-Vid1M [33], Pexels [35], and in-house collected data. To improve motion relevance, we use Qwen3-VL [2] to auto-matically filter clips whose main object exhibits basic mo-tion patterns such as translation, rotation, sliding, parabolic motion, oscillation, scale change, or deformation. For the retained clips, we first apply SAM2 [37] to segment all ob-jects in the first frame, and then run CoTracker3 [22] ini-tialized from the centroid of each object to obtain trajec-tory annotations, resulting in 460k video clips. These anno-tations provide scalable kinematic supervision rather than full physical measurements. We further use Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct and Qwen3-Omni-Captioner [57] to generate paired video and audio descriptions. For quantitative evalu-ation, we use 50 representative videos covering diverse mo-tion patterns and scene types. 

Metrics. We evaluate generation quality from four as-pects: video quality, audio quality, text alignment, and audio-video synchronization. For video, we report Fr´ echet Video Distance (FVD) [45], Aesthetic Score (AS), com-puted as the average of MANIQA [58] and MUSIQ [23], and Trajectory Error (TE), defined as the L2 distance be-tween the conditioning trajectories and the object tracks estimated from generated videos, following [63]. For au-dio, we adopt AudioBox-Aesthetics [44], including Con-tent Enjoyment (CE), Content Usefulness (CU), Produc-tion Complexity (PC), and Production Quality (PQ). To as-sess text alignment, we compute CLIP [36] and CLAP [53] scores for text-to-video and text-to-audio consistency, re-spectively. For audio-video synchronization, we utilize FGAS in PhyAVBench [55], which computes the cosine similarity between video frames and synchronized audio features in the latent space of CAV-MAE Sync [18]. To fur-ther assess physical coherence at the motion-sound level, we introduce two additional metrics. Event Timing Er-ror (ETE) measures the time difference between trajectory-derived events and corresponding audio onsets. Motion-6Table 1. Comparison on video quality, audio quality, text alignment, motion control, and audio-video synchronization, including event-level and intensity-level motion-sound coherence metrics. Video Quality Audio Quality Text Alignment AV Synchronization Motion Control Method # Params AS ↑ FVD ↓ CE ↑ CU ↑ PC ↓ PQ ↑ CLAP ↑ CLIP-T ↑ FGAS ↑ ETE ↓ MAIC ↑ TE ↓                                                                 

> LTX-2 [19] 22.16B 4.31 989.6 3.28 6.17 2.43 6.73 0.31 0.29 0.187 0.284 0.41 -Ovi [31] 11.66B 4.40 887.7 3.30 6.01 1.85 6.44 0.43 0.30 0.156 0.301 0.37 -MOVA [43] 30.00B 4.63 849.8 3.05 6.31 1.77 6.95 0.46 0.31 0.201 0.236 0.49 -AVControl [3] 22.32B 4.52 829.6 3.29 6.22 2.18 6.79 0.39 0.30 0.209 0.214 0.55 19.95
> Tora3 12.25B 4.61 784.1 3.34 6.43 1.81 7.09 0.44 0.31 0.234 0.181 0.63 12.13

Audio Intensity Correlation (MAIC) computes the Pearson correlation between a trajectory-derived motion-intensity signal and the temporally aligned audio energy envelope. We evaluate ETE on clips with discrete events and MAIC on clips with sustained motion and continuous sound evo-lution. Detailed computation procedures are provided in the appendix. 

Implementation Details. The model is initialized from the pretrained Ovi checkpoint and trained for 30k steps on 32 NVIDIA A100 GPUs with a global batch size of 32. We use AdamW with β1 = 0 .9, β2 = 0 .999 , weight decay 0.01, and learning rate 4 × 10 −5. Training stability is im-proved with BF16 mixed precision and gradient clipping at 1.0. Kinematic features are normalized using dataset-level statistics computed from 5,000 randomly sampled training examples. We further apply trajectory condition dropout with probability p = 0 .05 to improve robustness. For the mask Msoft , the binary trajectory mask is smoothed with a Gaussian kernel of σ = 0 .5 to encourage smooth transitions between trajectory-conditioned regions and their surround-ings. The sigmoid-gated scalar parameter γ is initialized to 

−10 .

Main Results 

Table 1 compares Tora3 with four competitive baselines, LTX-2 [19], Ovi [31], MOVA [43], and AVControl [3], across video quality, audio quality, text alignment, audio-video synchronization, and motion control. AVControl is a concurrent work on motion-conditioned audio-video gener-ation, and we include its results here for a direct compar-ison. Overall, Tora3 achieves the best trade-off of gener-ation quality and motion-sound coherence. It delivers the best video realism with the lowest FVD, strong overall au-dio quality, and the highest FGAS, indicating improved syn-chronization between generated motion and sound. Tora3 also achieves the lowest ETE and the highest MAIC, show-ing that it more accurately aligns salient audio events with motion and contact cues, and better matches the evolution of audio intensity to motion strength. At the same time, Tora3 remains highly competitive in text alignment, matching the best CLIP-T score and achieving a strong CLAP score. Compared with AVControl, Tora3 is particularly strong in motion-sound coherence. AVControl mainly uses trajec-tories as a control signal for the joint backbone, whereas Tora3 uses them as a shared kinematic prior for both modal-ities. Trajectory-aligned motion injection improves video motion fidelity, and kinematic-audio alignment explicitly links motion states to sound generation, leading to bet-ter FGAS, ETE, and MAIC. These gains support our cen-tral design: trajectories effectively couple visual motion and acoustic generation under a shared trajectory-grounded structure. Figure 4 shows the qualitative advantages of Tora3 over competitive baselines. In the motorcycle example, base-lines either degrade visual quality or fail to produce motion-consistent loudness variation, whereas Tora3 maintains sta-ble visuals and more coherent audio dynamics. In the rolling-ball example, baselines struggle with rolling, colli-sion, and post-impact motion together with synchronized sound, often producing unrealistic motion, incorrect im-pact timing, or audio artifacts. Tora3 models these events more faithfully with better synchronized rolling and impact sounds. Figure 5 shows that Tora3 produces speed-dependent au-dio variations. When the box is pulled faster, the generated sound is louder and exhibits subtle timbral differences com-pared with the sound produced under slower motion. This highlights the advantage of using trajectories as a shared kinematic prior, allowing motion changes to be reflected more consistently in both visual dynamics and generated sound. 

Ablation Studies 

Shared kinematic prior across modalities. Table 2 studies whether trajectory-derived kinematic conditioning should be applied to the video branch, the audio branch, or both. Applying it only to the video branch mainly improves visual generation, yielding the best Aesthetic Score and clearly better video realism. In contrast, applying it only to the audio branch more directly improves audio quality and motion-sound coherence, as reflected by higher PQ, FGAS, and MAIC as well as lower ETE. This asymmetric behav-7① ② ③① ② ③                           

> [V] "Static wide-angle: motorcycle speeds from distant upper-right horizon to near lower-left, remaining ultra-sharp in deep focus." [A] "Motorcycle rides past camera."
> Ovi LTX-2 MOVA Tora3
> ①②①②③①②③①②③①②③
> ①②③①②③①②③
> [V] "Static studio shot: wooden ball rolls from curved surface and hits dark wooden cube once." [A] "Wooden ball rolling, clear collision of wooden ball and cube."
> ①②③①②③①②③①②③
> ①②③
> ①②③
> ③

Figure 4. Qualitative comparison. Tora3 produces more stable visual motion and more coherent audio in both examples, including motion-consistent loudness variation for the moving motorcycle and better synchronized rolling and collision sounds for the rolling ball. Please refer to the supplementary video for full comparisons. "Heavy box slides right on concrete, pulled by taut rope."       

> ①②③
> ①②③
> ①②③

Figure 5. Effect of motion speed on generated audio. Tora3 gen-erates audio that varies consistently with motion speed. Table 2. Effect of using trajectories as a shared kinematic prior for both modalities. Setting AS ↑ FVD ↓ PQ ↑ FGAS ↑ ETE ↓ MAIC ↑

Neither 4.39 854.7 6.75 0.173 0.296 0.39 Video only 4.51 823.6 6.81 0.198 0.247 0.46 Audio only 4.42 845.2 6.89 0.209 0.221 0.61 Both (full) 4.47 811.8 6.93 0.225 0.193 0.66 

ior highlights that the two designs are complementary: tra-jectory injection improves motion faithfulness in the video branch, while kinematic conditioning improves event tim-ing and intensity alignment in the audio branch. When used together, they produce the strongest overall results in video realism, audio quality, and motion-sound coherence. This confirms that trajectories are most effective as a shared kine-matic prior across modalities rather than isolated controls for either branch alone. 8Table 3. Ablation on motion representation designs for video-branch injection. Tora-style and WanMove-style denote variants inspired by Tora [63] and WanMove [10], respectively.                       

> Method AS ↑FGAS ↑ETE ↓TE ↓# Params Tora-style [63] 4.49 0.179 0.271 17.06 12.65B (+0.99B) WanMove-style [10] 4.44 0.184 0.251 13.91 11.66B (+590K)
> Ours 4.51 0.198 0.247 13.03 11.66B (+0)

Motion representation designs for video-branch injec-tion. Table 3 compares three motion injection strategies for the video branch: a Tora-inspired design using an aux-iliary motion encoder and fuser, a WanMove-inspired de-sign that concatenates latent noise with trajectory-guided first-frame propagated features along the channel dimen-sion, and our Tora3 motion representation. Tora3 consis-tently achieves the best overall performance, yielding the highest visual quality, the strongest audio-video synchro-nization, the lowest event timing error, and the lowest tra-jectory error, while requiring no additional parameters. This advantage likely stems from the fact that: unlike prior ap-proaches that transform sparse control signals into separate feature spaces, Tora3 injects motion directly in the native latent space by reusing first-frame features along the pre-scribed trajectories. This leads to cleaner and more reliable motion control, improving trajectory following in the video branch and providing more stable motion cues to the audio branch through cross-modal interaction. 

Kinematic state components. Table 4 studies the effect of progressively enriching the kinematic conditioning used by the audio branch. Starting from no kinematic condi-tioning, adding position and velocity already improves both synchronization and motion-sound coherence. Incorporat-ing acceleration further strengthens performance, especially in FGAS, ETE, and MAIC. The full second-order kine-matic state, which additionally includes velocity and accel-eration magnitudes, achieves the best performance across all metrics. This trend is consistent with the role of differ-ent kinematic components. Position provides coarse scene context, velocity indicates how objects move over time, and acceleration is particularly informative for abrupt mo-tion changes associated with impact-like events. Adding the magnitudes of velocity and acceleration further exposes motion strength, allowing the model to better calibrate au-dio intensity and temporal salience. The monotonic im-provements therefore support our formulation of trajectory-derived kinematic states as a compact and effective interface between trajectories and audio generation. 

Hybrid flow matching. Table 5 shows that hybrid flow matching consistently improves both perceptual and dis-tributional video quality, while also improving trajectory faithfulness and overall audio-video synchronization. In particular, it improves the Aesthetic Score from 4.47 to                                       

> Table 4. Effect of different kinematic state components on audio generation and motion-sound coherence. Kinematic Signal PQ ↑FGAS ↑ETE ↓MAIC ↑
> None 6.75 0.173 0.296 0.39
> r+v6.79 0.191 0.254 0.48
> r+v+a6.86 0.202 0.229 0.56
> r+v+a+∥v∥2+∥a∥26.89 0.209 0.221 0.61
> Table 5. Effect of Hybrid Flow Matching (HFM) on video quality, trajectory following, and overall AV synchronization.

Method AS ↑ FVD ↓ TE ↓ FGAS ↑

w/o HFM 4.47 811.8 12.94 0.225 w/ HFM 4.61 784.1 12.13 0.234 

4.61, reduces FVD from 811.8 to 784.1, and lowers TE from 12.94 to 12.13. These results support our region-aware hybrid construction: stronger appearance anchoring in trajectory-conditioned regions improves motion fidelity, while preserving the standard flow in non-trajectory regions helps maintain local visual coherence. 

## Conclusion 

We presented Tora3, a trajectory-guided framework for audio-video generation that improves physical coherence by using object trajectories as a shared kinematic prior for video and audio synthesis. Tora3 integrates a trajectory-aligned motion representation, a second-order kinematics-based audio alignment module, and a hybrid flow matching objective for robust motion modeling and local consistency. We also introduced PAV, a large-scale audio-video dataset with motion-centric annotations for trajectory-aware gen-eration. Extensive experiments show that Tora3 improves visual realism, audio quality, motion-sound coherence, and audio-video synchronization over strong open-source base-lines, while remaining competitive in text alignment. Fu-ture work includes extending trajectory-level coherence to richer physical factors, such as material properties, contact dynamics, and 3D acoustic propagation. 9Tora3: Trajectory-Guided Audio-Video Generation with Physical Coherence 

# Supplementary Material 

## Contents 

A. Overview 10 B. Additional Method Details 10 

B.1. Trajectory Processing Pipeline . . . . . . . . 10 B.2. Trajectory Mask and Hybrid Flow Construction 10 B.3. Boundary Treatment for Kinematic Features 10 B.4. Training Objective Details . . . . . . . . . . 11 

C. Dataset Details 11 

C.1. Data Sources and Filtering . . . . . . . . . . 11 C.2. Motion Annotation Extraction . . . . . . . . 11 C.3. Text Annotation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 C.4. Test Set Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 

D. Evaluation Metric Details 12 

D.1. Event Timing Error (ETE) . . . . . . . . . . 13 D.2. Motion-Audio Intensity Correlation (MAIC) 13 

E. User Study 14 F. Limitations 16 G. Experiment Configuration 16 H. Notations 16 

## A. Overview 

This supplementary material provides additional details to complement the main paper. In particular, it includes ad-ditional method details, dataset details, evaluation metric details, user study results, limitations, experiment config-uration, and notation. 

## B. Additional Method Details 

B.1. Trajectory Processing Pipeline 

Given raw object trajectories extracted in image coordi-nates, we first temporally align them with the latent video frames used by the generator while preserving the first frame. Suppose the original video contains F frames. We retain the trajectory points at the first frame unchanged, and then compute one averaged trajectory point for every sub-sequent non-overlapping 4-frame interval. Therefore, the number of aligned latent frames is 

f =

 F − 14



+ 1 , (20) which yields 

T ∈ Rf ×N ×2, (21) where N is the number of trajectories. We then map image-space coordinates to latent-space coordinates using the VAE downsampling ratio s. For each image-space trajectory point (ji,n , k i,n ), the corresponding latent coordinate T ′ 

> i,n

= ( pi,n , q i,n ) is obtained by nearest-neighbor projection onto the latent grid after downsampling by a factor of s. In practice, this simple projection is suffi-cient because the trajectory signal is used as a sparse condi-tioning prior rather than a hard pixel-level constraint. 

B.2. Trajectory Mask and Hybrid Flow Construc-tion 

The binary trajectory mask M ∈ { 0, 1}f ×h×w marks latent locations visited by trajectory points: 

M [i, p, q ] = 1(p, q ) ∈ { (pi,n , q i,n )}Nn=1 

 . (22) Since trajectories are sparse, directly using a hard mask can produce sharp transitions during training. We therefore smooth M with a Gaussian kernel to obtain a soft mask 

Msoft = Gσ ∗ M, (23) where Gσ is a Gaussian kernel with standard deviation σ =0.5. The Gaussian smoothing is applied independently on each frame in the spatial plane. The soft mask is only used in the loss computation; the hybrid flow construction itself still relies on the binary mask. Since we focus on the image-to-video setting, after constructing the input latent xt from 

M , x0, ϵ, and xtraj , we overwrite the first-frame latent of 

xt with the given first-frame latent z in both training and inference. 

B.3. Boundary Treatment for Kinematic Features 

We compute kinematic features using finite differences. For interior frames, velocity and acceleration are estimated us-ing central finite differences, as described in the main pa-per. Since central differences are not directly applicable at sequence boundaries, we instead adopt second-order accu-rate forward and backward finite-difference schemes for the first and last frames, respectively: 

v0,n ≈ −3r0,n + 4 r1,n − r2,n 

2τ , (24) 

vf −1,n ≈ 3rf −1,n − 4rf −2,n + rf −3,n 

2τ , (25) 10 Table 6. Dataset statistics of PAV. 

Category Statistic Value 

Scale Total number of clips 460,218 Total duration (hours) 1564.9 Mean clip duration (s) 12.24 Data sources VGGSound 72,054 (15.7%) ACAV-100M 119,484 (26.0%) OpenVid1M 106,971 (23.2%) Pexels 116,678 (25.4%) In-house collected 45,031 (9.8%) 

and 

a0,n ≈ 2r0,n − 5r1,n + 4 r2,n − r3,n 

τ 2 , (26) 

af −1,n ≈ 2rf −1,n − 5rf −2,n + 4 rf −3,n − rf −4,n 

τ 2 .

(27) The dataset filtering step ensures that all retained trajecto-ries are sufficiently long for second-order estimation. For convenience, our implementation uses the findiff li-brary [1]. 

B.4. Training Objective Details 

The final training objective is 

Lfinal = 0 .85 Lvideo + 0 .15 LOvi audio . (28) The video loss is region-balanced: 

Lvideo = λout Lout + λtraj Ltraj , (29) with λout = λtraj = 0 .5. This balancing is important be-cause the trajectory region occupies only a small fraction of the latent volume. Without reweighting, the training signal from the trajectory region can be dominated by the uncon-strained background, weakening motion control. Notably, the loss on the first frame is excluded during training, as this frame is already known. 

## C. Dataset Details 

C.1. Data Sources and Filtering 

The PAV collection is assembled from several public audio-video corpora, including VGGSound [7], ACAV-100M [26], OpenVid1M [33], and Pexels [35], together with in-house collected videos. Rather than maximizing category coverage alone, our construction emphasizes clips that are both of sufficient quality and likely to contain vi-sually meaningful motion for trajectory-aware audio-video modeling. Dataset statistics are shown in Table 6. We first apply a standard quality-control stage to remove clips with obvious defects. Specifically, we discard samples 

Listing 1. Python function for computing the center of a binary mask.                                    

> 1import cv2
> 2import numpy as np
> 34def mask_center(mask):
> 5mask01 =(mask >0).astype(np.uint8)
> 6M=cv2.moments(mask01)
> 78if M["m00"] == 0:
> 9return None
> 10 11 cx =M["m10"] /M["m00"]
> 12 cy =M["m01"] /M["m00"]
> 13 return (cx, cy)

with low visual quality, severe compression artifacts, reso-lutions that are either too low or excessively high, abrupt shot transitions, prominent subtitles or overlaid graphics, missing or corrupted frames, and audio tracks that are ab-sent, extremely noisy, or otherwise unusable. This stage is intended to filter out common issues that would interfere with reliable visual analysis, motion extraction, or align-ment between video and audio. After this general cleaning stage, we perform atrajectory-oriented dynamic screening step. A vision-language model, Qwen3-VL [2], is used to identify can-didate clips whose foreground content exhibits clearly per-ceivable temporal dynamics. In practice, we retain clips as-sociated with common motion phenomena such as object displacement, descent under gravity, sliding, rolling, pe-riodic motion, spinning, apparent size variation, and non-rigid shape change. This step biases the dataset toward samples where trajectory cues are likely to be informative for downstream audio-video generation, rather than toward largely static or weakly dynamic scenes. 

C.2. Motion Annotation Extraction 

Trajectory annotations are obtained automatically. For each accepted clip, we use SAM2 [37] on the first frame to pro-duce object masks. For each SAM2 mask, we compute the object center as the centroid of the binary foreground re-gion using cv2.moments from OpenCV [5], as shown in Listing 1. Concretely, given a binary mask, we first convert it to uint8 format and compute its spatial moments. The object center (cx, c y ) is then obtained as 

cx = m10 

m00 

, cy = m01 

m00 

, (30) where m00 denotes the mask area and m10 , m 01 are the first-order moments. In implementation, we ignore degen-erate masks with m00 = 0 . We use these mask centers to initialize CoTracker3 [22] and track object motion through time. 11 We further filter trajectories using simple heuristics to remove unstable cases. In particular, we discard trajecto-ries that are too short in duration, exhibit negligible over-all displacement, or are invalid near image boundaries for a substantial portion of the clip. Clips without any remaining valid foreground trajectory after this filtering step are re-moved. The final dataset contains approximately 460k clips with trajectory annotations that are suitable for large-scale trajectory-aware training. It is important to note that these annotations are intended as scalable motion proxies rather than precise physical mea-surements. Since the pipeline relies on automatic segmen-tation, centroid-based initialization, and generic tracking, errors may still arise in crowded scenes, under strong oc-clusion, during rapid appearance variation, or for highly de-formable objects. In addition, the motion-focused filtering strategy may skew the dataset toward relatively salient and visually recognizable motion patterns. 

C.3. Text Annotation 

We use Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct and Qwen3-Omni-Captioner [57] to generate paired text descriptions for video and audio content. The system prompts for generat-ing video and audio descriptions are shown as Listings 2 and 3, respectively. These descriptions are used as text prompts during training and evaluation. 

C.4. Test Set Construction 

For quantitative evaluation, we build a held-out test set of 50 representative clips that are fully excluded from train-ing. We sample clips to cover diverse motion patterns and scene types, and apply the same quality-control and motion-oriented filtering pipeline as used in the construction of PAV. We further ensure that the selected clips contain clear fore-ground motion together with either discrete motion-related sound events or sustained motion-dependent audio, so that they are suitable for evaluating trajectory following, event timing, and motion-audio intensity coherence. 

Listing 2. The system prompt for video description  

> 1

Please provide a detailed, objective, and comprehensive description of this video in one coherent paragraph. Focus only on visible and verifiable visual content, and describe the scene in a way that is suitable for training a text-to-video model.  

> 23

Your description should include:  

> 4

- Main subjects: Identify the primary people, animals, or objects, including their appearance, clothing, pose, materials, colors, and visible textures.  

> 5

- Actions and motion: Describe what each subject is doing, including body movement , interactions, motion direction, speed, intensity, and temporal progression.  

> 6

- Environment and background: Describe the location, setting, background elements, weather, time of day, lighting conditions , and spatial layout.  

> 7

- Camera work and framing: Describe the shot type and composition (e.g. close-up, medium shot, wide shot, overhead view), as well as any camera movement such as pan, tilt, zoom, tracking, handheld motion, or static framing.  

> 8

- Visual style and atmosphere: Specify the visual style (e.g. photorealistic, cinematic, documentary, surveillance, animation, 3D render) and the overall visual tone.  

> 910

Requirements:  

> 11

- Write as a single coherent paragraph.  

> 12

- Use precise, neutral, literal language.  

> 13

- Avoid subjective interpretation, emotional analysis, symbolism, storytelling, or poetic phrasing.  

> 14

- Do not infer intentions, backstory, or anything not clearly visible.  

> 15

- If the scene changes over time, describe the events in chronological order. 

Listing 3. The system prompt for audio description  

> 1

# Role  

> 2

You are an audio description assistant. Your task is to analyze the audio track of avideo and provide a clear, detailed, and faithful description of everything that can be heard.  

> 34

# Requirements  

> 5

- Listen carefully to the entire audio.  

> 6

- Describe all audible elements without adding assumptions or visual information.  

> 7

- Describe non-speech sounds, such as:  

> 8

- music (genre, mood, tempo)  

> 9

- environmental or ambient sounds  

> 10

- sound effects  

> 11

- actions implied by sound (e.g., footsteps, door opening)  

> 12

- If distinct sound sources or segments are present, present them clearly and unambiguously.  

> 13 14

# Constraints  

> 15

- Do not invent information that is not audible.  

> 16

- Do not describe visual content, focus only on what the audio contains.  

> 17

- Do not use line breaks in your output. 

## D. Evaluation Metric Details 

In addition to standard video, audio, and text-alignment metrics, we introduce two motion-sound coherence metrics: Event Timing Error (ETE) and Motion-Audio Intensity Cor-relation (MAIC). 12 D.1. Event Timing Error (ETE) 

Event Timing Error (ETE) measures temporal alignment between visually inferred motion events and salient audio onsets. Because precise event times are not directly avail-able for every generated sample, and exhaustive manual an-notation is costly, we use trajectory-based automatic detec-tion to assist manual annotation. We evaluate ETE only on 

impact-dominant clips, where temporally localized motion events are well defined and more likely to correspond to discrete audio onsets. 

Trajectory-derived event candidates. For each gener-ated trajectory, we first smooth the temporal coordinate se-quence to reduce high-frequency jitter, and then compute finite-difference accelerations. Candidate visual event times are identified as temporally isolated local extrema in ac-celeration magnitude ∥ai,n ∥2, which capture abrupt kine-matic changes. To improve robustness, we retain only extrema whose magnitude exceeds an adaptive threshold defined as the 95th percentile of acceleration magnitudes over all trajectories in the video, and apply temporal non-maximum suppression to remove near-duplicate detections. In impact-dominant motions, such extrema often correlate with contact-like events or sudden momentum changes, making them a useful source of candidate event times. 

Manual annotation with automatic assistance. Since tra-jectory extrema are only a proxy and may contain false pos-itives or miss valid events, the automatically detected can-didates are used only to assist annotation rather than define the final event set. Annotators review each clip and anno-tate the complete set of plausible sound-producing events, including validating or discarding proposed candidates and adding events missed by the automatic procedure. We define such events as visually identifiable, temporally lo-calized motion events that would normally induce salient acoustic responses, such as impacts, contacts, collisions, or abrupt stops. The same event definition and annotation pro-tocol are used for all compared methods. To reduce bias, annotation is performed with model identity hidden from the annotator. 

Audio onset extraction. We use the librosa li-brary [32] to detect audio onsets, i.e., time points at which new sound events begin. Specifically, we apply 

librosa.onset.onset detect , which computes an onset strength envelope and then performs peak picking over this temporal novelty curve. Intuitively, the onset strength envelope measures abrupt spectral changes in the audio signal, and peaks in this curve often correspond to perceptually salient event boundaries. This provides a stan-dard and robust way to convert a waveform into a sequence of onset timestamps for downstream alignment analysis. 

Matching under a tolerance window. Let {θvis  

> u

}Nvis  

> u=1

de-note the filtered visual event times, and let {θaudio  

> l

}Naudio 

> l=1

denote the detected audio onset times. We seek an optimal one-to-one matching between visual and audio events under a temporal tolerance threshold ∆tol . We use ∆tol = 0 .5 s as a conservative matching window. This value is large enough to tolerate approximation errors in automatically derived vi-sual events and audio onset detection, while remaining in-formative in practice. Let Π denote any one-to-one match-ing, where each visual event and each audio event can ap-pear in at most one matched pair. We regard Π as valid only if: 

θvis  

> u

− θaudio  

> l

≤ ∆tol , ∀(u, l ) ∈ Π. (31) 

Error computation. For a given valid matching Π, define the number of unmatched events as 

Nunm = ( Nvis − | Π|) + ( Naudio − | Π|). (32) Each matched pair contributes its absolute temporal devia-tion, while each unmatched event incurs a penalty of ∆tol .The matching-specific error is defined as 

ETE(Π) = 

P 

> (u,l )∈Π

θvis  

> u

− θaudio  

> l

+ ∆ tol Nunm 

|Π| + Nunm 

. (33) The final event timing error is then defined as the minimum over all valid one-to-one matchings: 

ETE = min  

> Π

ETE(Π) . (34) This formulation jointly balances temporal alignment qual-ity and penalties for unmatched events. Lower ETE indi-cates better temporal alignment between visually inferred impact events and generated sound. As a boundary convention, when both the filtered visual event set and the detected audio onset set are empty, we set 

ETE = ∆ tol . (35) Although this case yields no explicit timing mismatch, we treat it as a failure case rather than perfect alignment, since ETE is evaluated only on impact-dominant clips where at least one salient event is generally expected. This prevents degenerate no-event generations from receiving an artifi-cially optimal score. 

D.2. Motion-Audio Intensity Correlation (MAIC) 

Motion-Audio Intensity Correlation (MAIC) evaluates whether the temporal evolution of audio intensity is consis-tent with the temporal evolution of visible motion strength. 

Trajectory-derived motion-strength signal. For each ob-ject trajectory, we compute a scalar motion-strength signal at frame i by combining the velocity magnitude and the ac-celeration magnitude: 

μi,n = ∥vi,n ∥2 + ∥ai,n ∥2. (36) 13 This simple combination captures both sustained motion magnitude and temporal changes in motion. When multi-ple trajectories are present, we directly average the motion-strength signals across objects to obtain a clip-level motion-strength sequence, without introducing additional object-specific weighting: 

μi = 1

N

> N

X

> n=1

μi,n , i = 0 , . . . , f − 1. (37) 

Audio-intensity signal. Given a generated waveform sam-pled at 16 kHz, we compute a frame-level log-energy signal aligned with the motion-strength sequence {μi}f −1 

> i=0

. Let 

Nwav denote the total number of waveform samples in the generated clip, and let y[iwav ] denote the waveform sam-ple at discrete sample index iwav . We divide the waveform into f non-overlapping temporal segments aligned with the video frames. Specifically, for each frame i = 0 , . . . , f − 1,we define 

Ii =

 iN wav 

f , (i + 1) Nwav 

f



∩ Z, i = 0 , . . . , f − 1.

(38) We compute the mean squared energy of the i-th segment as 

ei = 1

|I i|

X 

> iwav ∈I i

y[iwav ]2. (39) To reduce dynamic range and improve numerical stability, we then apply logarithmic compression: 

αi = log(1 + ei), i = 0 , . . . , f − 1. (40) This yields a frame-aligned audio-intensity sequence 

{αi}f −1 

> i=0

.

Correlation computation. MAIC is defined as the Pear-son correlation coefficient between the clip-level motion-strength sequence {μi}f −1 

> i=0

and the audio-intensity se-quence {αi}f −1 

> i=0

:

MAIC = 

Pf −1 

> i=0

(μi − ¯μ)( αi − ¯α)

qPf −1 

> i=0

(μi − ¯μ)2

qPf −1 

> i=0

(αi − ¯α)2

, (41) where 

¯μ = 1

f 

> f−1

X

> i=0

μi, ¯α = 1

f 

> f−1

X

> i=0

αi (42) are the temporal means of the motion-strength and audio-intensity signals, respectively. Higher MAIC indicates stronger agreement between motion variation and audio-energy variation over time. If either sequence has zero tem-poral variance, we set MAIC to 0. 

Usage protocol. MAIC is most informative for clips with sustained motion and continuously varying sound, such as driving, dragging, sliding, or rolling. In contrast to ETE, which focuses on temporally localized impact-like events, MAIC captures whether stronger visible motion is accom-panied by correspondingly stronger generated sound over the course of a clip. 

## E. User Study 

Automatic metrics quantify different aspects of generation quality, but they do not fully capture how users perceive motion-conditioned audio-video generation. We therefore conduct a human preference study to examine whether the advantages of Tora3 are also meaningful at the perceptual level. Instead of asking participants to rate abstract metric dimensions, we ask them to compare models according to five concrete criteria: Video Quality , Event-level Audio Tim-ing , Motion-Sound Intensity Alignment , Motion Alignment ,and Overall Preference .

Setup. We compare Tora3 against four baselines: LTX-2, Ovi, MOVA, and AVControl. We recruit 10 participants for the study, and each participant evaluates 100 compar-ison pairs, resulting in 1000 pairwise comparisons in to-tal. The evaluated pairs are uniformly distributed across model pairs, so that each participant reviews a balanced number of comparisons for each baseline. For each pairwise comparison, participants are shown two generated clips un-der the same text prompt and trajectory condition (when supported), with model identities hidden and left-right or-der randomized. They are then asked to compare the two anonymized videos for each of the following questions and assign a label of win , tie , or lose :• Video Quality (VQ): Which video looks better in terms of naturalness, temporal stability, and visual coherence? • Event-level Audio Timing (EAT): Which video better aligns salient sound events (e.g., impact, contact, abrupt motion change) with the visible motion? • Motion-Sound Intensity Alignment (MSIA): Which video better matches the temporal variation of sound in-tensity to the visible motion intensity over time? • Motion Alignment (MA): Which video better follows the prescribed object trajectory and intended motion pat-tern? • Overall Preference (OP): Which video is preferred over-all when considering both video and audio together? These perceptual criteria are designed to correspond to the major dimensions in our quantitative evaluation. This design allows us to directly assess whether the quantitative improvements of Tora3 translate into a better user experi-ence. 

Analysis. The user study results in Table 7 and Figure 6 show that the advantages of Tora3 are consistently reflected in human perception. Across most pairwise comparisons and evaluation dimensions, participants tend to prefer Tora3 14 Table 7. User study results (%) in pairwise comparison against baselines. Each entry is reported as Win / Tie / Lose for Tora3. Higher win rate indicates stronger human preference for Tora3. Motion Alignment is only applicable to methods that support explicit trajectory control. 

Tora3 compared to VQ EAT MSIA MA OP 

LTX-2 59.2 / 15.9 / 24.9 60.1 / 16.7 / 23.2 63.9 / 21.2 / 14.9 - 59.1 / 16.8 / 24.1 Ovi 54.4 / 16.8 / 28.8 65.9 / 18.2 / 15.9 66.1 / 21.8 / 12.1 - 63.9 / 18.1 / 18.1 MOVA 48.8 / 20.7 / 30.5 51.1 / 21.9 / 27.0 50.8 / 26.3 / 22.9 - 52.3 / 22.8 / 24.9 AVControl 52.6 / 19.8 / 27.6 48.4 / 22.7 / 29.0 44.1 / 28.9 / 27.0 45.1 / 23.9 / 31.0 50.2 / 23.1 / 26.7   

> Figure 6. Pairwise user study results of Tora3 against each baseline, reported as win–tie–lose rates (%). Motion Alignment is only applicable to methods that support explicit trajectory control.

over the competing methods, indicating that its improve-ments are not only measurable by automatic metrics but also perceptually meaningful. A particularly clear trend appears on Event-level Au-dio Timing (EAT) and Motion-Sound Intensity Alignment (MSIA) . Participants generally judge Tora3 to better place salient sound events at visually appropriate moments and to better match the evolution of sound intensity with the evolu-tion of visible motion strength. This suggests that the pro-posed trajectory-aware audio-video generation framework improves both localized synchronization, such as impact timing, and more continuous correspondence between mo-tion dynamics and audio energy. These perceptual findings are well aligned with the motivation behind our proposed coherence metrics. Tora3 is also generally preferred in terms of Video Qual-ity (VQ) . Although the margin is not as pronounced as in the motion-sound criteria, the overall preference trend in-dicates that introducing trajectory-conditioned control and audio-aware modeling does not harm visual realism or tem-poral consistency. Instead, users often perceive the result-ing videos as more natural and coherent. This is impor-tant because it suggests that the gains in controllability and cross-modal alignment are achieved without sacrificing vi-sual quality. For Motion Alignment (MA) , which is only applicable in comparison with AVControl, participants show a moder-ate preference for Tora3 on motion alignment and overall preference, while the margin is smaller than against non-trajectory-controlled baselines. This indicates that Tora3 more faithfully follows the prescribed trajectory and in-tended motion pattern in a perceptually meaningful way. The trend in Overall Preference (OP) further confirms the above observations. When users are asked to consider the generated video and audio jointly, Tora3 is generally preferred over all baselines. This suggests that the bene-fits of improved event timing, better motion-sound intensity correspondence, and stronger motion controllability com-bine into a more favorable overall viewing experience. In other words, the proposed method does not merely improve isolated aspects of generation, but leads to a more coherent multimodal result as perceived by human evaluators. Overall, the human study supports the main claim of our work: trajectory-aware generation improves not only mo-tion controllability, but also the perceptual coherence be-tween visible motion and generated sound. The fact that these advantages are consistently recognized by users pro-vides complementary evidence to the objective evaluation and highlights the practical value of the proposed frame-work. 15 F. Limitations 

Although Tora3 improves physical coherence, it still has several limitations. First, trajectories provide only a lightweight kinematic prior. They do not encode material properties, contact stiff-ness, object mass, surface roughness, or 3D geometry. As a result, Tora3 can improve temporal alignment and intensity evolution but cannot fully determine the exact sound texture of all interactions. Second, our current formulation uses monaural audio generation. This limits the modeling of spatial acoustics such as direction-dependent attenuation, reverberation, and binaural cues. 

## G. Experiment Configuration 

The main experimental settings are summarized below: • Base model: pretrained Ovi “720x720 5s” checkpoint. • Training steps: 30 ,000 .• Hardware: 32 NVIDIA A100 GPUs. • Global batch size: 32 .• Video resolution: 960 × 544 .• Audio sample rate: 16 kHz. • Number of frames: 121 .• Target FPS: 24 .• Optimizer: AdamW. • Learning rate: 4 × 10 −5.• Learning rate schedule: constant. • Weight decay: 0.01 .• Mixed precision: BF16. • Gradient clipping: 1.0.• Trajectory dropout probability: 0.05 .• Soft-mask Gaussian smoothing ( σ): 0.5.• Loss weights: video 0.85 , audio 0.15 .• Region-balanced video loss weights: λout = λtraj = 0 .5.• Numerical stability constant ( δ): 10 −8.• Inference sampling steps: 50 .

## H. Notations 

x0: clean video latent sequence 

z: first-frame latent 

eT : complete object trajectory in pixel space 

T : trajectory tensor aligned with the sampled video frames 

T ′: trajectory mapped to latent grid coordinates 

xtraj : trajectory-conditioned latent constructed under tra-jectory guidance 

xt: intermediate latent at time t in flow matching 

x1: initialization latent at t = 1 during inference 

ϵ: standard Gaussian noise endpoint 

v: target velocity field in flow matching 

ˆv: model-predicted velocity field 

h: spatial height of the latent 

w: spatial width of the latent 

d: channel or embedding dimension of the latent / token 

f : number of latent video frames 

F : number of original video frames 

N : number of trajectories 

i: frame index 

n: index of the n-th trajectory 

pi,n : row coordinate of the n-th trajectory point in frame i

on the latent grid 

qi,n : column coordinate of the n-th trajectory point in frame 

i on the latent grid 

ji,n : vertical coordinate in image space 

ki,n : horizontal coordinate in image space 

s: VAE downsampling factor 

ri,n : normalized position vector of the n-th object in frame 

i

vi,n : velocity vector of the n-th object in frame i

ai,n : acceleration vector of the n-th object in frame i

∥vi,n ∥2: velocity magnitude 

∥ai,n ∥2: acceleration magnitude 

ϕi,n : 8-dimensional kinematic feature: position, velocity, acceleration, and their magnitudes 

di,n : concatenated dynamic-term vector excluding position 

˜di,n : dynamic term after signed log compression 

˜ϕi,n : normalized and encoded kinematic token 

Ek: kinematic encoder 

τ : time interval between adjacent video frames, τ = 1 /fps 

Hkin : kinematic token sequence 

Ha: audio token hidden states 

H′

> a

: audio hidden states fused with kinematic information 

∆Ha: incremental update produced by kinematic cross-attention 

Qa: query in the audio-branch cross-attention 

Kkin : key in the kinematic cross-attention 

Vkin : value in the kinematic cross-attention 

La: length of the audio tokens 

W (Q) 

> a

: projection matrix for generating audio queries 

W (K) 

> kin

: projection matrix for generating kinematic keys 

W (V ) 

> kin

: projection matrix for generating kinematic values 

γ: learnable gating parameter 

σ(·): sigmoid function 

Ωtraj : trajectory-conditioned region, corresponding to the set of all latent positions traversed by trajectories 

M : binary trajectory mask 

Msoft : soft mask after Gaussian smoothing 

⊙: Hadamard element-wise multiplication 

1[·]: indicator function 

σ: standard deviation of the Gaussian smoothing kernel 

Gσ : Gaussian kernel with standard deviation σ

∗: convolution operation 

Lvideo : training loss for the video branch 

LOvi audio : original audio loss of Ovi 

Lfinal : final joint training objective 16 Lout : regression loss for outside of trajectory regions 

Ltraj : regression loss for trajectory regions 

λout : loss weight for outside of trajectory regions 

λtraj : loss weight for trajectory regions 

δ: numerical stability constant 

t: time step in flow matching, t ∈ [0 , 1] 

β1: first-moment hyperparameter of AdamW 

β2: second-moment hyperparameter of AdamW 

p: trajectory condition dropout probability 

(ji,n , k i,n ): 2D coordinate of the n-th trajectory point in frame i in image space 

θvis  

> u

: timestamp of the u-th filtered visual event 

θaudio  

> l

: onset time of the l-th audio event 

u: visual event index 

l: audio event index 

Nvis : number of visual events 

Naudio : number of audio events (onsets) 

∆tol : temporal tolerance window for event matching in ETE 

Π: one-to-one matching set between visual and audio events that satisfies the tolerance-window constraint 

Nunm : total number of unmatched events 

ETE(Π) : event temporal error computed under a given matching Π

cx: horizontal coordinate of the centroid of the binary mask 

cy : vertical coordinate of the centroid of the binary mask 

m00 : zeroth-order moment of the binary mask, correspond-ing to the foreground area 

m10 : first-order spatial moment of the binary mask (in the 

x direction) 

m01 : first-order spatial moment of the binary mask (in the 

y direction) 

μi,n : motion-strength scalar of the n-th trajectory in frame 

iμi: clip-level motion-strength at frame iNwav : total number of waveform samples in the generated audio clip 

y[iwav ]: waveform sample at discrete audio sample index 

iwav 

Ii: set of waveform sample indices assigned to frame iei: mean squared audio energy of the waveform segment aligned with frame iαi: log-compressed audio-intensity at frame i

¯μ: temporal mean of the clip-level motion-strength se-quence 

¯α: temporal mean of the audio-intensity sequence 

## References 

[1] M. Baer. findiff software package, 2018. https:// github.com/maroba/findiff . 11 [2] Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, Wenbin Ge, Zhifang Guo, Qidong Huang, Jie Huang, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Shutong Jiang, Zhao-hai Li, Mingsheng Li, Mei Li, Kaixin Li, Zicheng Lin, Jun-yang Lin, Xuejing Liu, Jiawei Liu, Chenglong Liu, Yang Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Shixuan Liu, Dunjie Lu, Ruilin Luo, Chenxu Lv, Rui Men, Lingchen Meng, Xuancheng Ren, Xingzhang Ren, Sibo Song, Yuchong Sun, Jun Tang, Jianhong Tu, Jian-qiang Wan, Peng Wang, Pengfei Wang, Qiuyue Wang, Yux-uan Wang, Tianbao Xie, Yiheng Xu, Haiyang Xu, Jin Xu, Zhibo Yang, Mingkun Yang, Jianxin Yang, An Yang, Bowen Yu, Fei Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xi Zhang, Bo Zheng, Humen Zhong, Jingren Zhou, Fan Zhou, Jing Zhou, Yuanzhi Zhu, and Ke Zhu. Qwen3-vl technical report, 2025. 6, 11 [3] Matan Ben-Yosef, Tavi Halperin, Naomi Ken Korem, Mo-hammad Salama, Harel Cain, Asaf Joseph, Anthony Chen, Urska Jelercic, and Ofir Bibi. Avcontrol: Efficient frame-work for training audio-visual controls, 2026. 7 [4] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127 , 2023. 2 [5] G. Bradski. The OpenCV Library. Dr. Dobb’s Journal of Software Tools , 2000. 11 [6] Hila Chefer, Uriel Singer, Amit Zohar, Yuval Kirstain, Adam Polyak, Yaniv Taigman, Lior Wolf, and Shelly Sheynin. Videojam: Joint appearance-motion representations for en-hanced motion generation in video models. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2025, Vancouver, BC, Canada, July 13-19, 2025 . PMLR / OpenRe-view.net, 2025. 2 [7] Honglie Chen, Weidi Xie, Andrea Vedaldi, and Andrew Zis-serman. Vggsound: A large-scale audio-visual dataset. In 

2020 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, ICASSP 2020, Barcelona, Spain, May 4-8, 2020 , pages 721–725. IEEE, 2020. 6, 11 [8] Yi Chen, Sen Liang, Zixiang Zhou, Ziyao Huang, Yifeng Ma, Junshu Tang, Qin Lin, Yuan Zhou, and Qinglin Lu. Hunyuanvideo-avatar: High-fidelity audio-driven hu-man animation for multiple characters. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20156 , 2025. 2 [9] Ho Kei Cheng, Masato Ishii, Akio Hayakawa, Takashi Shibuya, Alexander Schwing, and Yuki Mitsufuji. Mmaudio: Taming multimodal joint training for high-quality video-to-audio synthesis. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 28901–28911, 2025. 2[10] Ruihang Chu, Yefei He, Zhekai Chen, Shiwei Zhang, Xi-aogang Xu, Bin Xia, Dingdong Wang, Hongwei Yi, Xi-hui Liu, Hengshuang Zhao, et al. Wan-move: Motion-controllable video generation via latent trajectory guidance. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.08765 , 2025. 3, 9 [11] Alibaba Cloud. Wan2.5, 2025. https://wan.video/ .2[12] Zuozhuo Dai, Zhenghao Zhang, Yao Yao, Bingxue Qiu, Siyu Zhu, Long Qin, and Weizhi Wang. Animateanything: Fine-grained open domain image animation with motion guid-ance, 2023. 3 

17 [13] Google DeepMind. Veo3, 2025. https://deepmind. google/models/veo/ . 2 [14] Congyue Deng, Brandon Y. Feng, Cecilia Garraffo, Alan Garbarz, Robin Walters, William T. Freeman, Leonidas J. Guibas, and Kaiming He. Denoising hamiltonian network for physical reasoning. Trans. Mach. Learn. Res. , 2026, 2026. 2 [15] Qijun Gan, Ruizi Yang, Jianke Zhu, Shaofei Xue, and Steven Hoi. Omniavatar: Efficient audio-driven avatar video generation with adaptive body animation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.18866 , 2025. 2 [16] Xin Gao, Li Hu, Siqi Hu, Mingyang Huang, Chaonan Ji, Dechao Meng, Jinwei Qi, Penchong Qiao, Zhen Shen, Yafei Song, et al. Wan-s2v: Audio-driven cinematic video genera-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.18621 , 2025. 2 [17] Daniel Geng, Charles Herrmann, Junhwa Hur, Forrester Cole, Serena Zhang, Tobias Pfaff, Tatiana Lopez-Guevara, Yusuf Aytar, Michael Rubinstein, Chen Sun, Oliver Wang, Andrew Owens, and Deqing Sun. Motion prompting: Controlling video generation with motion trajectories. In 

IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2025, Nashville, TN, USA, June 11-15, 2025 , pages 1–12. Computer Vision Foundation / IEEE, 2025. 3 [18] Yuan Gong, Andrew Rouditchenko, Alexander H. Liu, David Harwath, Leonid Karlinsky, Hilde Kuehne, and James R. Glass. Contrastive audio-visual masked autoencoder. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representa-tions, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023 . OpenRe-view.net, 2023. 6 [19] Yoav HaCohen, Benny Brazowski, Nisan Chiprut, Yaki Bitterman, Andrew Kvochko, Avishai Berkowitz, Daniel Shalem, Daphna Lifschitz, Dudu Moshe, Eitan Porat, Eitan Richardson, Guy Shiran, Itay Chachy, Jonathan Chetboun, Michael Finkelson, Michael Kupchick, Nir Zabari, Nitzan Guetta, Noa Kotler, Ofir Bibi, Ori Gordon, Poriya Panet, Roi Benita, Shahar Armon, Victor Kulikov, Yaron Inger, Yonatan Shiftan, Zeev Melumian, and Zeev Farbman. Ltx-2: Efficient joint audio-visual foundation model, 2026. 2, 3, 7 [20] Xiaohu Huang, Hao Zhou, Qiangpeng Yang, Shilei Wen, and Kai Han. Jova: Unified multimodal learning for joint video-audio generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.13677 , 2025. 3[21] Bingyi Kang, Yang Yue, Rui Lu, Zhijie Lin, Yang Zhao, Kaixin Wang, Gao Huang, and Jiashi Feng. How far is video generation from world model: A physical law perspective. In 

Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learn-ing, ICML 2025, Vancouver, BC, Canada, July 13-19, 2025 .PMLR / OpenReview.net, 2025. 2 [22] Nikita Karaev, Iurii Makarov, Jianyuan Wang, Natalia Neverova, Andrea Vedaldi, and Christian Rupprecht. Co-tracker3: Simpler and better point tracking by pseudo-labelling real videos, 2024. 6, 11 [23] Junjie Ke, Qifei Wang, Yilin Wang, Peyman Milanfar, and Feng Yang. MUSIQ: multi-scale image quality transformer. In 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, ICCV 2021, Montreal, QC, Canada, October 10-17, 2021 , pages 5128–5137. IEEE, 2021. 6 [24] Diederik P. Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding vari-ational bayes. In 2nd International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2014, Banff, AB, Canada, April 14-16, 2014, Conference Track Proceedings , 2014. 4 [25] Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo Dai, Jin Zhou, Jiangfeng Xiong, Xin Li, Bo Wu, Jianwei Zhang, et al. Hunyuanvideo: A systematic framework for large video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.03603 , 2024. 2[26] Sangho Lee, Jiwan Chung, Youngjae Yu, Gunhee Kim, Thomas M. Breuel, Gal Chechik, and Yale Song. ACAV100M: automatic curation of large-scale datasets for audio-visual video representation learning. In 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, ICCV 2021, Montreal, QC, Canada, October 10-17, 2021 ,pages 10254–10264. IEEE, 2021. 6, 11 [27] Quanhao Li, Zhen Xing, Rui Wang, Hui Zhang, Qi Dai, and Zuxuan Wu. Magicmotion: Controllable video genera-tion with dense-to-sparse trajectory guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.16421 , 2025. 3 [28] Yaowei Li, Xintao Wang, Zhaoyang Zhang, Zhouxia Wang, Ziyang Yuan, Liangbin Xie, Ying Shan, and Yuexian Zou. Image conductor: Precision control for interactive video syn-thesis. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , pages 5031–5038, 2025. 3 [29] Kai Liu, Wei Li, Lai Chen, Shengqiong Wu, Yanhao Zheng, Jiayi Ji, Fan Zhou, Rongxin Jiang, Jiebo Luo, Hao Fei, et al. Javisdit: Joint audio-video diffusion transformer with hierar-chical spatio-temporal prior synchronization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23377 , 2025. 3 [30] Shaowei Liu, Zhongzheng Ren, Saurabh Gupta, and Shen-long Wang. Physgen: Rigid-body physics-grounded image-to-video generation. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 360–378. Springer, 2024. 3 [31] Chetwin Low, Weimin Wang, and Calder Katyal. Ovi: Twin backbone cross-modal fusion for audio-video genera-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.01284 , 2025. 2, 3, 7 [32] Brian McFee, Matt McVicar, Daniel Faronbi, Iran Roman, Matan Gover, Stefan Balke, Scott Seyfarth, Ayoub Malek, Colin Raffel, Vincent Lostanlen, Benjamin van Niekirk, Dana Lee, Frank Cwitkowitz, Frank Zalkow, Oriol Ni-eto, Dan Ellis, Jack Mason, Kyungyun Lee, Bea Steers, Emily Halvachs, Carl Thom´ e, Fabian Robert-St¨ oter, Rachel Bittner, Ziyao Wei, Adam Weiss, Eric Battenberg, Ke-unwoo Choi, Ryuichi Yamamoto, CJ Carr, Alex Met-sai, Stefan Sullivan, Pius Friesch, Asmitha Krishnaku-mar, Shunsuke Hidaka, Steve Kowalik, Fabian Keller, Dan Mazur, Alexandre Chabot-Leclerc, Curtis Hawthorne, Chan-drashekhar Ramaprasad, Myungchul Keum, Juanita Gomez, Will Monroe, Viktor Andreevitch Morozov, Kian Eliasi, nullmightybofo, Paul Biberstein, N. Dorukhan Sergin, Ro-main Hennequin, Rimvydas Naktinis, beantowel, Taewoon Kim, Jon Petter ˚Asen, Joon Lim, Alex Malins, Dar´ ıo Here˜ n´ u, Stef van der Struijk, Lorenz Nickel, Jackie Wu, Zhen Wang, Tim Gates, Matt Vollrath, Andy Sarroff, Xiao-Ming, Alastair Porter, Seth Kranzler, Voodoohop, Mat-tia Di Gangi, Helmi Jinoz, Connor Guerrero, Abduttayyeb Mazhar, toddrme2178, Zvi Baratz, Anton Kostin, Xinlu 

18 Zhuang, Cash TingHin Lo, Pavel Campr, Eric Semeniuc, Monsij Biswal, Shayenne Moura, Paul Brossier, Hojin Lee, Waldir Pimenta, Jon Petter ˚ Asen, Shin Hyun, Iliya S, Eu-gene Rabinovich, Geo Lei, Jize Guo, Phillip S.M. Skel-ton, Matt Pitkin, Anmol Mishra, Slava Chaunin, BenedictSt, Scott VanRavenswaay, and David S¨ udholt. librosa/librosa: 0.11.0, 2025. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo. 15006942 . 13 [33] Kepan Nan, Rui Xie, Penghao Zhou, Tiehan Fan, Zhen-heng Yang, Zhijie Chen, Xiang Li, Jian Yang, and Ying Tai. Openvid-1m: A large-scale high-quality dataset for text-to-video generation. In The Thirteenth International Confer-ence on Learning Representations, ICLR 2025, Singapore, April 24-28, 2025 . OpenReview.net, 2025. 6, 11 [34] Openai. Sora2, 2025. https://openai.com/index/ sora-2/ . 2 [35] Pexels. Pexels. https://www.pexels.com/ . 6, 11 [36] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2021, 18-24 July 2021, Virtual Event , pages 8748– 8763. PMLR, 2021. 6 [37] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang Hu, Chaitanya Ryali, Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman R¨ adle, Chlo´ e Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Eric Mintun, Junt-ing Pan, Kalyan Vasudev Alwala, Nicolas Carion, Chao-Yuan Wu, Ross B. Girshick, Piotr Doll´ ar, and Christoph Feichtenhofer. SAM 2: Segment anything in images and videos. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2025, Singapore, April 24-28, 2025 . OpenReview.net, 2025. 6, 11 [38] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj¨ orn Ommer. High-resolution image syn-thesis with latent diffusion models. In IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2022, New Orleans, LA, USA, June 18-24, 2022 , pages 10674– 10685. IEEE, 2022. 4 [39] Ludan Ruan, Yiyang Ma, Huan Yang, Huiguo He, Bei Liu, Jianlong Fu, Nicholas Jing Yuan, Qin Jin, and Baining Guo. Mm-diffusion: Learning multi-modal diffusion mod-els for joint audio and video generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 10219–10228, 2023. 3 [40] Sizhe Shan, Qiulin Li, Yutao Cui, Miles Yang, Yuehai Wang, Qun Yang, Jin Zhou, and Zhao Zhong. Hunyuanvideo-foley: Multimodal diffusion with representation alignment for high-fidelity foley audio generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.16930 , 2025. 2 [41] Xiaoyu Shi, Zhaoyang Huang, Fu-Yun Wang, Weikang Bian, Dasong Li, Yi Zhang, Manyuan Zhang, Ka Chun Cheung, Simon See, Hongwei Qin, et al. Motion-i2v: Consistent and controllable image-to-video generation with explicit motion modeling. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Papers ,pages 1–11, 2024. 3 [42] Jianlin Su, Murtadha H. M. Ahmed, Yu Lu, Shengfeng Pan, Wen Bo, and Yunfeng Liu. Roformer: Enhanced trans-former with rotary position embedding. Neurocomputing ,568:127063, 2024. 5 [43] OpenMOSS Team, Donghua Yu, Mingshu Chen, Qi Chen, Qi Luo, Qianyi Wu, Qinyuan Cheng, Ruixiao Li, Tianyi Liang, Wenbo Zhang, Wenming Tu, Xiangyu Peng, Yang Gao, Yanru Huo, Ying Zhu, Yinze Luo, Yiyang Zhang, Yuerong Song, Zhe Xu, Zhiyu Zhang, Chenchen Yang, Cheng Chang, Chushu Zhou, Hanfu Chen, Hongnan Ma, Ji-axi Li, Jingqi Tong, Junxi Liu, Ke Chen, Shimin Li, Shiqi Jiang, Songlin Wang, Wei Jiang, Zhaoye Fei, Zhiyuan Ning, Chunguo Li, Chenhui Li, Ziwei He, Zengfeng Huang, Xie Chen, and Xipeng Qiu. Mova: Towards scalable and syn-chronized video-audio generation, 2026. 7 [44] Andros Tjandra, Yi-Chiao Wu, Baishan Guo, John Hoffman, Brian Ellis, Apoorv Vyas, Bowen Shi, Sanyuan Chen, Matt Le, Nick Zacharov, Carleigh Wood, Ann Lee, and Wei-Ning Hsu. Meta audiobox aesthetics: Unified automatic quality assessment for speech, music, and sound, 2025. 6 [45] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach, Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly. To-wards accurate generative models of video: A new metric & challenges, 2019. 6 [46] Team Wan, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, Di Chen, Feiwu Yu, Haiming Zhao, Jianx-iao Yang, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20314 , 2025. 2[47] Duomin Wang, Wei Zuo, Aojie Li, Ling-Hao Chen, Xinyao Liao, Deyu Zhou, Zixin Yin, Xili Dai, Daxin Jiang, and Gang Yu. Universe-1: Unified audio-video generation via stitching of experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.06155 , 2025. 2, 3 [48] Hanlin Wang, Hao Ouyang, Qiuyu Wang, Wen Wang, Ka Leong Cheng, Qifeng Chen, Yujun Shen, and Limin Wang. Levitor: 3d trajectory oriented image-to-video syn-thesis. In IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2025, Nashville, TN, USA, June 11-15, 2025 , pages 12490–12500. Computer Vision Founda-tion / IEEE, 2025. 3 [49] Jun Wang, Xijuan Zeng, Chunyu Qiang, Ruilong Chen, Shiyao Wang, Le Wang, Wangjing Zhou, Pengfei Cai, Ji-ahui Zhao, Nan Li, et al. Kling-foley: Multimodal diffu-sion transformer for high-quality video-to-audio generation. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.19774 , 2025. 2 [50] Kai Wang, Shijian Deng, Jing Shi, Dimitrios Hatzinakos, and Yapeng Tian. Av-dit: Taming image diffusion transformers for efficient joint audio and video generation. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Multimedia ,pages 10486–10495, 2025. 3 [51] Zhouxia Wang, Ziyang Yuan, Xintao Wang, Yaowei Li, Tianshui Chen, Menghan Xia, Ping Luo, and Ying Shan. Motionctrl: A unified and flexible motion controller for video generation. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Pa-pers , pages 1–11, 2024. 3 [52] Weijia Wu, Zhuang Li, Yuchao Gu, Rui Zhao, Yefei He, David Junhao Zhang, Mike Zheng Shou, Yan Li, Tingting 

19 Gao, and Di Zhang. Draganything: Motion control for anything using entity representation. In Computer Vision - ECCV 2024 - 18th European Conference, Milan, Italy, September 29-October 4, 2024, Proceedings, Part XXII ,pages 331–348. Springer, 2024. 4 [53] Yusong Wu, Ke Chen, Tianyu Zhang, Yuchen Hui, Tay-lor Berg-Kirkpatrick, and Shlomo Dubnov. Large-scale contrastive language-audio pretraining with feature fusion and keyword-to-caption augmentation. In IEEE Interna-tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-ing ICASSP 2023, Rhodes Island, Greece, June 4-10, 2023 ,pages 1–5. IEEE, 2023. 6 [54] FU Xiao, Xian Liu, Xintao Wang, Sida Peng, Menghan Xia, Xiaoyu Shi, Ziyang Yuan, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, and Dahua Lin. 3dtrajmaster: Mastering 3d trajectory for multi-entity motion in video generation. In The Thirteenth Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations , 2025. 3 [55] Tianxin Xie, Wentao Lei, Guanjie Huang, Pengfei Zhang, Kai Jiang, Chunhui Zhang, Fengji Ma, Haoyu He, Han Zhang, Jiangshan He, Jinting Wang, Linghan Fang, Lufei Gao, Orkesh Ablet, Peihua Zhang, Ruolin Hu, Shengyu Li, Weilin Lin, Xiaoyang Feng, Xinyue Yang, Yan Rong, Yanyun Wang, Zihang Shao, Zelin Zhao, Chenxing Li, Shan Yang, Wenfu Wang, Meng Yu, Dong Yu, and Li Liu. Phyavbench: A challenging audio physics-sensitivity bench-mark for physically grounded text-to-audio-video genera-tion, 2025. 6 [56] Yazhou Xing, Yingqing He, Zeyue Tian, Xintao Wang, and Qifeng Chen. Seeing and hearing: Open-domain visual-audio generation with diffusion latent aligners. In Proceed-ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 7151–7161, 2024. 3 [57] Jin Xu, Zhifang Guo, Hangrui Hu, Yunfei Chu, Xiong Wang, Jinzheng He, Yuxuan Wang, Xian Shi, Ting He, Xinfa Zhu, Yuanjun Lv, Yongqi Wang, Dake Guo, He Wang, Linhan Ma, Pei Zhang, Xinyu Zhang, Hongkun Hao, Zishan Guo, Baosong Yang, Bin Zhang, Ziyang Ma, Xipin Wei, Shuai Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Peng Wang, Mingkun Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Xingzhang Ren, Bo Zheng, Rui Men, Fan Zhou, Bowen Yu, Jianxin Yang, Le Yu, Jingren Zhou, and Junyang Lin. Qwen3-omni technical report, 2025. 6, 12 [58] Sidi Yang, Tianhe Wu, Shuwei Shi, Shanshan Lao, Yuan Gong, Mingdeng Cao, Jiahao Wang, and Yujiu Yang. MANIQA: multi-dimension attention network for no-reference image quality assessment. In IEEE/CVF Con-ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Work-shops, CVPR Workshops 2022, New Orleans, LA, USA, June 19-20, 2022 , pages 1190–1199. IEEE, 2022. 6 [59] Shengming Yin, Chenfei Wu, Jian Liang, Jie Shi, Houqiang Li, Gong Ming, and Nan Duan. Dragnuwa: Fine-grained control in video generation by integrating text, image, and trajectory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08089 , 2023. 3 [60] Yu Yuan, Xijun Wang, Tharindu Wickremasinghe, Zeeshan Nadir, Bole Ma, and Stanley H Chan. Newtongen: Physics-consistent and controllable text-to-video generation via neu-ral newtonian dynamics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.21309 ,2025. 3 [61] Haomin Zhang, Chang Liu, Junjie Zheng, Zihao Chen, Chaofan Ding, and Xinhan Di. Deepaudio-v1: Towards multi-modal multi-stage end-to-end video to speech and au-dio generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22265 , 2025. 3 [62] Yifu Zhang, Hao Yang, Yuqi Zhang, Yifei Hu, Fengda Zhu, Chuang Lin, Xiaofeng Mei, Yi Jiang, Bingyue Peng, and Ze-huan Yuan. Waver: Wave your way to lifelike video genera-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.15761 , 2025. 2 [63] Zhenghao Zhang, Junchao Liao, Menghao Li, Zuozhuo Dai, Bingxue Qiu, Siyu Zhu, Long Qin, and Weizhi Wang. Tora: Trajectory-oriented diffusion transformer for video genera-tion. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 2063–2073, 2025. 3, 6, 9 [64] Zhenghao Zhang, Junchao Liao, Xiangyu Meng, Long Qin, and Weizhi Wang. Tora2: Motion and appearance cus-tomized diffusion transformer for multi-entity video gener-ation. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Con-ference on Multimedia , pages 9434–9443, 2025. 3 

20