Title: Seen-to-Scene: Keep the Seen, Generate the Unseen for Video Outpainting

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.14648v1

Published Time: Fri, 17 Apr 2026 00:33:13 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# Seen-to-Scene: Keep the Seen, Generate the Unseen for Video Outpainting 

## Inseok Jeon 1 Minhyeok Lee 1 Seunghoon Lee 1 Minseok Kang 1 Suhwan Cho 2 Sangyoun Lee 11 Yonsei University 2 GenGenAI 

https://inseokjeon.github.io/seen_to_scene 

Figure 1. Seen-to-Scene is a novel framework that unifies propagation-based and generation-based paradigms for video outpainting. It maintains strong spatio-temporal consistency across frames even under challenging conditions such as camera motion, dynamic objects and complex motion patterns. The official implementation is released at https://github.com/InSeokJeon/Seen_to_Scene .

## Abstract 

Video outpainting aims to expand the visible content of a video beyond the original frame boundaries while preserv-ing spatial fidelity and temporal coherence across frames. Existing methods primarily rely on large-scale generative models, such as diffusion models. However, generation-based approaches suffer from implicit temporal modeling and limited spatial context. These limitations lead to intra-frame and inter-frame inconsistencies, which become par-ticularly pronounced in dynamic scenes and large outpaint-ing scenarios. To overcome these challenges, we propose 

Seen-to-Scene , a novel framework that unifies propagation-based and generation-based paradigms for video outpaint-ing. Specifically, Seen-to-Scene leverages flow-based prop-agation with a flow completion network pre-trained for video inpainting, which is fine-tuned in an end-to-end man-ner to bridge the domain gap and reconstruct coherent mo-tion fields. To further improve the efficiency and relia-bility of propagation, we introduce a reference-guided la-tent propagation that effectively propagates source content across frames. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves superior temporal coherence and visual realism with efficient inference, surpassing even prior state-of-the-art methods that require input-specific adaptation. 

## 1. Introduction 

As short-form and multi-platform video content grows rapidly, video production and consumption are expanding across a wide range of devices and displays. In practice, most videos are typically captured at fixed aspect ratios such as 16:9 and 9:16, while modern displays offer diverse aspect ratios and sizes. This mismatch often leads to black bars or undesired cropping, which remains a practical challenge in modern video editing and content creation. Video outpainting, which generates visual content be-yond the original frame boundaries across the video se-quence, has emerged as a promising solution. Recently, a wide variety of methods have been proposed, and they can be categorized into two paradigms: (i) propagation-based approaches and (ii) generation-based approaches. Propagation-based approaches complete the outpaint-ing regions by warping neighboring frames using optical flow and propagating observable content into missing ar-eas. Such propagation methods have been widely used in video inpainting [4, 10, 12, 24, 25, 28], where masked regions are restored by propagating reliable spatial and temporal information from neighboring frames. Building upon propagation-based approaches originally designed for video inpainting, Dehan [5] introduced a propagation-based 

> arXiv:2604.14648v1 [cs.CV] 16 Apr 2026

framework for video outpainting. However, applying these propagation strategies to video outpainting leads to several limitations. First, dense pixel-level warping and sequential flow composition across intermediate frames demand sub-stantial computation, as the cost scales with both spatial res-olution and the number of frames. Unlike video inpainting, which fills in missing regions within a fixed spatial resolu-tion, video outpainting inherently requires spatial expansion beyond the original frame boundaries. As a result, propaga-tion costs increase substantially in video outpainting. Sec-ond, existing methods rely on flow-completion networks trained for video inpainting, which introduces a domain gap when applied to video outpainting. These networks are op-timized to estimate motion within localized masked regions and therefore struggle to generalize to the large spatial ex-pansions required in outpainting. As the distance from the source region increases, the predicted flows become pro-gressively unstable, resulting in flow misalignment and vis-ible artifacts. Finally, propagation alone cannot synthesize non-observable regions and therefore necessitates genera-tive models or auxiliary networks to fill the missing areas. Motivated by these limitations and the success of gen-erative models, recent studies [2, 6, 11, 13, 14, 19, 23, 27] have shifted toward generation-based approaches. Lever-aging diffusion models [7] with powerful generative capa-bility, they have achieved significant progress. However, even with these advances, generation-based approaches still face key challenges. First, generative models cannot en-sure consistent preservation of source content over time, as diffusion-based models rely on implicit temporal cor-relations. Such modeling maintains source content be-tween adjacent frames, but its temporal correlations break down over longer intervals, causing inter-frame inconsisten-cies and temporal discontinuities. Second, limited spatial cues restrict global scene understanding, forcing reliance on learned generative priors. These models often halluci-nate content, resulting in intra-frame inconsistencies and structural artifacts. Overall, achieving spatio-temporal co-herence remains an open challenge for video outpainting. To overcome the limitations of these two paradigms, we propose Seen-to-Scene , a novel propagation-based video diffusion framework for video outpainting. At its core, Seen-to-Scene unifies propagation and generation by com-bining the source content preservation of propagation with the generative capability of diffusion models. The inte-gration of latent propagation into pre-trained video dif-fusion models [1] contributes in three key aspects. (i) Implicit Latent Diversity : Latent propagation introduces variations in spatial structure and temporal dynamics across frames. Such variations inherently expose the model to di-verse spatial layouts and motion patterns, improving its gen-eralization across a wide range of visual scenes and spa-tial expansion ratios. (ii) Enhancing Spatial Reasoning :Propagated latents provide additional spatial cues beyond frame boundaries. Such guidance promotes global struc-tural awareness and coherent spatial layout reasoning, miti-256x256 512x512 1024x1024 2048x2048 

> Output Resolution of Outpainting
> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 35
> 40
> Inference Time (s) & VRAM Usage (GB)  Computational Cost Comparison
> Sequential Propagation Inference Time
> Sequential Propagation VRAM Usage
> Ours Inference Time
> Ours VRAM Usage

Figure 2. Computational cost comparison with a SOTA propagation-based model [4]. Dense and sequential propagation incurs significantly higher inference time and VRAM usage. 

gating hallucinated structures and improving spatial coher-ence. (iii) Improving Temporal Consistency : Explicit propagation across frames encourages the model to pre-serve observable regions while generating non-observable content. This mechanism further strengthens temporal co-herence and structural consistency throughout the sequence. To effectively integrate propagation into a generative model, several practical challenges must be addressed. Conventional propagation schemes incur significant com-putational overhead due to dense warping in pixel space and sequential flow composition across frames. We alleviate this issue by introducing a reference-guided latent propa-gation that identifies content-rich reference frames via inter-frame correlation within a sliding temporal window and per-forms propagation directly in the latent space. Since prop-agation is directly integrated into the generation process, misaligned propagated latents can adversely affect subse-quent generation. We also design a lightweight refinement module to mitigate propagation artifacts and reduce flow de-pendency. Furthermore, we observe that existing flow com-pletion networks trained for video inpainting lead to a non-trivial domain gap when applied to video outpainting. We therefore adapt the flow completion network to video out-painting, yielding robust motion estimates for propagation. Our main contributions can be summarized as follows: • We propose Seen-to-Scene, a novel propagation-based video diffusion model that integrates propagation and generation for video outpainting to preserve observed content while naturally generating unseen regions. • We introduce an efficient reference-guided latent propa-gation tailored for video outpainting that retrieves infor-mative frames based on cross-frame similarity, enabling propagation without sequential frame-wise composition. • To improve the alignment of propagated latents, we de-sign a refinement module and conduct the first analysis of the domain gap in flow completion for video outpainting. • Despite not requiring input-specific adaptation, Seen-to-Scene achieves superior visual fidelity and temporal co-herence with efficient inference on standard outpainting benchmarks composed of diverse real-world videos. (a) Flow Completion  Domain  Gap  (b) Source Content Preservation Failure  (c) Contextual Hallucination Figure 3. Key limitations of existing video outpainting approaches. (a) Flow completion domain gap : Flow completion networks trained for video inpainting struggle to generalize to video outpainting due to the substantially larger missing regions involved. Consequently, the predicted flow often suffers from bleeding around dynamic objects and fails to provide reliable motion estimates for regions far from the original content. (b) Source content preservation failure : Generation-based approaches often fail to preserve the original source content across frames when spatially extending video frames. As a result, visual content may disappear or fail to appear consistently in the generated regions, leading to temporal inconsistency throughout the video sequence. (c) Contextual hallucination : Due to the limited contextual cues available for video outpainting, generation-based methods may hallucinate semantically irrelevant or unrealistic content in the outpainting regions. Such hallucinations introduce visual artifacts and intra-frame inconsistency. 

## 2. Related Work 

Flow-based propagation. Videos inherently exhibit strong spatio-temporal continuity, as adjacent frames share highly correlated structures and motion patterns. This motivates the use of optical flow to explicitly capture pixel-wise mo-tion across frames. To preserve source content, flow-based propagation typically consists of three stages: flow esti-mation, flow completion, and flow-guided warping. Prior methods have improved these components individually or jointly. DFVI [22] completes optical flow fields using a Deep Flow Completion Network (DFC-Net) and propa-gates known pixels along the flow to fill missing areas. E2FGVI [12] jointly learns flow completion and propaga-tion. ProPainter [28] enhances propagation through dual-domain integration. RGVI [4] introduces a one-shot pixel pulling strategy to mitigate error accumulation. Although these approaches have achieved notable success in video in-painting, they are inherently limited when extended to video outpainting due to the lack of observable context and the large spatial extent of missing regions. In addition, their pixel-level warping relies on sequential flow composition across intermediate frames, resulting in higher computa-tional cost as spatial resolution and video length increase. These limitations are illustrated in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 (a) .

Video outpainting. Unlike video inpainting, which fills in missing regions within a fixed resolution, video outpaint-ing expands the spatial canvas by generating new content beyond the original frame boundaries. Previous works on video outpainting can be categorized into zero-shot and one-shot methods based on inference strategies. Zero-shot methods generate spatially extended content directly from the input video without any fine-tuning on the specific video. Dehan [5] estimates optical flow to warp background content from adjacent frames and fills the remaining regions using an image completion net-work. M3DDM [6] trains a 3D diffusion model on large-scale video datasets with mask modeling. Follow-Your-Canvas [2] distributes the generation process across spatial windows to overcome GPU memory constraints. However, these approaches often suffer from limited visual fidelity, temporal inconsistency, and blurry results. In particular, Li et al. [11] propose a flow completion network for video out-painting, yet their method directly conditions the generation process on completed flow, leading to flow dependency. In contrast, one-shot methods perform fine-tuning on each specific input video before generating new content. MOTIA [19] performs input-specific adaptation to capture sequence-specific appearance and motion patterns. Un-boxed [23] expands static scenes via 3D Gaussian Splatting and utilizes diffusion models for dynamic-region synthesis and temporal coherence. Although these methods achieve strong performance, they incur substantial inference over-head from sequence-specific adaptation and often produce repetitive or irrelevant content in the outpainting regions. Fig. 3 illustrates several limitations of existing methods. Unlike prior approaches that handle propagation and generation separately, we propose a unified framework that jointly exploits their complementary strengths within a sin-gle end-to-end framework. By integrating propagation-driven source preservation with diffusion-based content generation, our method preserves original structures while providing additional spatial cues during generation. Despite operating in a zero-shot manner, our framework outper-forms existing one-shot approaches while achieving faster inference with reduced computational resources. Figure 4. Overview of the proposed Seen-to-Scene framework. Seen-to-Scene unifies propagation and generation for coherent video outpainting. Given an input video, reference frames are selected and optical flow is estimated using RAFT [17], followed by flow comple-tion with FCNet [28]. The input frames are encoded into latent representations via a pre-trained VAE encoder. Using the completed flow, we perform reference-guided latent propagation to preserve source content across frames. A lightweight refinement module is then applied to mitigate propagation artifacts. The refined latents serve as conditions for a diffusion-based generation process, where a denoising U-Net synthesizes the outpainted content in latent space. The final video frames are reconstructed using a VAE decoder. 

## 3. Preliminary 

Diffusion Model. A typical diffusion model consists of three components: a pre-trained VAE encoder [9] that maps each video frame into a latent code, a denoising network (e.g., a 3D-UNet or Transformer [16]) that models the dif-fusion process in the latent space, and a VAE decoder that reconstructs video frames from the latent representations. Given a video consisting of N frames, the encoder maps each frame into a latent code zi, forming the latent sequence 

Z0 = {zi}Ni=1 . In the forward diffusion process, Gaussian noise is progressively added to Z0 over T time steps. With a pre-defined noise schedule {βt}Tt=1 , we define αt = 1 − βt

and ¯αt = Qti=1 αi, where αt controls the noise level at step 

t, and ¯αt represents the cumulative noise scaling factor that determines the relative contribution of the original signal in 

Zt. The noisy latent Zt at time step t can be written as 

Zt = √¯αt Z0 + √1 − ¯αt ϵ, ϵ ∼ N (0, I). (1) where ϵ denotes Gaussian noise sampled from a standard normal distribution. The denoising network ϵθ is trained to predict the injected noise given (Zt, t ) by minimizing the standard diffusion training objective: 

L = Et, ϵ∼N (0,I) ϵ − ϵθ (Zt, t ) 2. (2) In the inference stage, the denoising network iteratively re-moves noise from ZT to obtain the clean latent sequence 

Z0. The resulting latent sequence is then decoded by the VAE decoder to reconstruct the final video frames. 

## 4. Method 

We present Seen-to-Scene , a novel video outpainting framework that integrates propagation and generation within a unified architecture. We first formulate the problem in Sec. 4.1. We then describe the reference-guided latent propagation mechanism in Sec. 4.2. Finally, we describe the diffusion-based generation framework in Sec. 4.3. 

4.1. Problem Formulation 

Given a video sequence {Ii}Ni=1 consisting of N frames, where each frame Ii ∈ R3×h×w, our goal is to expand each frame beyond its original spatial canvas. Specifically, we aim to generate an expanded sequence { ˆIi}Ni=1 , where 

ˆIi ∈ R3×H×W with H > h and W > w , while preserving both intra-frame and inter-frame consistency. The overall pipeline of the proposed framework is illustrated in Fig. 4. 

4.2. Latent Propagation 

Preserving source content across frames is essential for maintaining both intra-frame and inter-frame consistency. Observable content can be propagated across frames to pro-vide reliable spatial cues that partially extend the outpaint-ing regions. This insight motivates our latent propagation, which propagates visual information in latent space to guide the generation of coherent outpainting regions. We now de-scribe our reference-guided latent propagation in detail. 

Reference Frame Selection. Video sequences inherently exhibit strong temporal continuity, where adjacent frames share highly overlapping visual content. To avoid redundant information while providing informative context for the out-painting regions, we select reference frames based on struc-tural correlation. For an input sequence {Ii}Ni=1 , we define a temporal window of size m and construct a global reference chain R = [ r1, r 2, . . . , r L], initialized with the first frame 

r1 = I1. At step l, given the current reference index rl,we define the candidate index set within the temporal win-dow as C(rl+1 ) = {rl + 1 , r l + 2 , . . . , min( rl + m, N )}.For each candidate frame Ij with j ∈ C (rl+1 ), we mea-sure the structural correlation between Irl and Ij using the structure component of the Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) [20]. To suppress illumination and color variations and focus purely on structural similarity, we compute the structure term of SSIM on gray-scale images as follows: 

s(rl, j ) = SSIM structure 

 gray( Irl ), gray( Ij ), (3) where s(rl, j ) denotes the structural correlation score be-tween frames Irl and Ij . We select the next reference frame by minimizing the score within the candidate set: 

rl+1 = arg min j∈C (rl+1 ) s(rl, j ). (4) Intuitively, selecting the frame with the lowest spatial simi-larity encourages the reference chain to include frames that contain rich contextual information while avoiding redun-dant content from temporally adjacent frames. After select-ing rl+1 , the temporal window is advanced to the new refer-ence index and the same procedure is iteratively applied to extend the reference chain. When the number of candidates becomes smaller than the window size m, the final frame 

IN is appended to R to complete the reference sequence. 

Flow Estimation and Completion. To preserve source content via flow-based propagation, we estimate optical flow using RAFT [17] between each frame Ii and its nearest past r−(i) and future r+(i) reference frames, defined as: 

Fi→r−(i) = RAFT( Ii, I r−(i)) r−(i)=max {rl:rl≤i},Fi→r+(i) = RAFT( Ii, I r+(i)) r+(i)=min {rl:rl≥i}. (5) On the expanded canvas, we define a binary outpainting mask {Mi}Ni=1 with Mi ∈ R1×H×W , where Mi(x) = 1 

denotes the outpainting region outside the original frame boundary. Each estimated flow is mapped onto the ex-panded canvas. The regions indicated by the outpainting mask are treated as missing areas to be completed. To com-plete the missing flows in the outpainting regions, we adopt a pre-trained flow completion network [28]. However, ex-isting flow completion models for video inpainting are typi-cally specialized for small and spatially contiguous missing regions. When applied to large outpainting masks, these models often exhibit a domain gap, resulting in spatially diffuse or inconsistent flow estimates. To mitigate this do-main gap, we jointly fine-tune the pre-trained flow comple-tion network within our end-to-end pipeline using outpaint-ing masks as supervision for the missing regions. This joint optimization allows the network to adapt to the large and open-ended missing regions in outpainting, thereby improv-ing flow reliability beyond the original frame boundaries. As a result, we obtain completed optical flows { ˆFi}N −1

> i=1

between each frame Ii and its reference frames Ir(i).

Reference Guided Latent Propagation. Each frame Ii

is encoded by the VAE encoder into a latent code Zi ∈

Rc′×h/s ×w/s , where s denotes the spatial downsampling factor. Since the VAE encoder preserves spatial correspon-dence, the completed flows { ˆFi}N −1 

> i=1

in pixel space and the outpainting masks {Mi}Ni=1 are downscaled by the same factor s. Each latent Zi is placed on the expanded latent canvas according to the mask. To fill in the outpainting re-gions, we propagate latent codes from reference frames us-ing the completed flows and one-shot pulling strategy [4]. For each target latent Zi, latent codes are aggregated only along the pre-defined reference chain instead of across all frames. Specifically, starting from the nearest past and fu-ture reference r−(i) and r+(i), the corresponding refer-ence latents are first propagated to the target latent Zi via grid-based warping using the completed flows Fi→r−(i) and 

Fi→r+(i). We further extend the propagation range by re-cursively composing reference-to-reference flows, allowing temporally distant references to contribute without requir-ing direct flow estimation between all frame pairs. For ref-erences rt ordered in time, the accumulated flows toward the target latent Zi are defined as follows: 

Fi→r+ 

> t+1 (i)

= Fi→r+  

> t(i)

+ W Fr+  

> t(i)→r+
> t+1 (i)

; Fi→r+ 

> t(i)

,Fi→r− 

> t−1(i)

= Fi→r−  

> t(i)

+ W Fr−  

> t−1(i)→r−
> t(i)

; Fi→r− 

> t(i)

.

(6) Using the accumulated reference flows, we warp reference latents to the target frame under the corresponding source masks ˙Mi = 1 − Mi. This enables direct long-range propa-gation along the reference chain instead of sequential prop-agation, reducing the accumulation of warping errors. 

Latent Alignment. Through latent propagation, each la-tent aggregates globally observable visual content across the video sequence. To further reduce the dependency on completed flow and mitigate local misalignments, we in-troduce a lightweight refinement module that refines latent alignment using appearance cues rather than motion infor-mation. The refinement module takes the propagated latent, the original latent, the outpainting mask, and the propagated mask as inputs. It refines locally misaligned structures by predicting residual sampling offsets and adaptive modula-tion weights that selectively adjust latent alignment within uncertain regions. Alignment is performed bidirectionally, and the two direction-specific latents are fused using a shal-low convolution layer to produce the final refined latent rep-resentation. Additional details, including the architecture of the refinement module and pseudo code for the latent prop-agation procedure, are provided in Appendix C. 4.3. Video Diffusion Model 

After latent propagation, the outpainting regions in the latents are partially filled with content propagated from source regions across frames. This propagated content serves as conditioning for the subsequent diffusion process. 

Training Stage. For diffusion training, we encode the ground-truth video into latent codes { ˙Zi}Ni=1 using a pre-trained VAE encoder. The propagated latents { ˜Zi}Ni=1 ,which contain source content partially propagated through reference-guided latent propagation, are concatenated with 

{ ˙Zi}Ni=1 along the channel dimension to form the input to the denoising network. Gaussian noise is then added to the concatenated latents according to the diffusion timestep to obtain the noisy latents for training. The noisy latents are fused using a 1 × 1 convolution layer and fed into the 3D U-Net backbone. To leverage the strong spatio-temporal priors learned from large-scale video data, we fine-tune a pre-trained video diffusion model [1] for the video outpaint-ing task. Specifically, all convolutional and spatial atten-tion layers are frozen to preserve the strong spatial priors learned during large-scale pre-training, while only the tem-poral transformer blocks remain trainable. The temporal blocks leverage motion-aware propagation-conditioned la-tents to aggregate temporal context and perform temporal reasoning across frames. The denoising network is then op-timized for outpainting using the objective defined in Eq. 2. 

Inference Stage. During inference, the ground-truth la-tent used during training is replaced with Gaussian noise sampled from a standard normal distribution. This noise serves as the initial noise sample for the generation process. The propagated latents obtained from the reference-guided latent propagation are concatenated with the noise latent along the channel dimension. This conditioning provides contextual guidance that enables the diffusion model to gen-erate coherent and plausible outpainting content. Unlike ex-isting state-of-the-art approaches [2, 19], our approach does not require text prompts or additional conditioning signals during inference. The concatenated latents are then fed into the 3D U-Net to predict the outpainted latents. Finally, the VAE decoder reconstructs the final video frames. As a re-sult, our method performs inference in a zero-shot manner. 

## 5. Experiments 

5.1. Experiment Setup 

Implementation Details. For latent propagation, we set the window size to m = 4 . For diffusion training, we construct 25-frame video clips. The model is trained using Adam [8] with an initial learning rate of 1 × 10 −5 for 100K iterations, with a batch size of 1 on two NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPUs. 

Training Datasets. Previous diffusion-based video out-painting methods are trained on large-scale or private datasets containing millions of video samples [3]. In con-trast, our model is trained using only 100K video samples from the publicly available YouTube-VOS training set [21]. 

Evaluation Datasets. To align with existing benchmarks, we evaluate our method on the DAVIS [15] and YouTube-VOS [21] datasets. For DAVIS 2017, we test on 90 video sequences. The evaluation protocol for YouTube-VOS is not explicitly standardized in prior works [2, 23], which of-ten rely on selected high-quality subsets. To avoid potential selection bias, we randomly sample 60 videos from the of-ficial test set. Following the standard protocol, we report horizontal outpainting results under mask ratios of 0.25 and 0.66 for all test videos. The complete list of sampled videos is provided in Appendix E to ensure reproducibility. 

Evaluation Metrics. We evaluate our method using stan-dard quantitative metrics, including PSNR, SSIM [20], LPIPS [26], and FVD [18]. Fr´ echet Video Distance (FVD) serves as the principal metric for video outpainting, as it captures both perceptual realism and temporal consistency by measuring the distributional distance between the gen-erated and original videos. All evaluation metrics are com-puted following the same protocol as prior works [2, 19]. 

5.2. Quantitative Evaluation 

Table 1 reports the quantitative comparison with existing video outpainting methods on the DAVIS and YouTube-VOS datasets. Our method outperforms prior approaches across all evaluation metrics on both datasets. In particular, on DAVIS, our method achieves the best performance with a PSNR of 21.95, LPIPS of 0.141, SSIM of 0.783, and FVD of 218.8, surpassing previous methods by a clear margin. Similarly, on YouTube-VOS, our method outperforms all baselines across all four metrics, achieving improvements of 6.7% in FVD and 19.7% in LPIPS, indicating supe-rior perceptual quality and temporal stability. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our reference-guided latent propagation in preserving source content while maintaining coherent spatio-temporal structures during video outpaint-ing. Notably, all results are achieved without any scene-specific adaptation, highlighting the strong generalization capability of Seen-to-Scene across diverse video scenarios. 

5.3. Qualitative Evaluation 

Fig.7 illustrates the qualitative comparison between our method and existing approaches. Although M3DDM [6] introduces masked modeling for data augmentation, it of-ten produces blurry content or fails to generalize when generating regions distant from the observed area. MO-TIA [19], which performs test-time adaptation to capture input-specific patterns, frequently leads to repetitive objects or background artifacts. Follow-Your-Canvas [2] occasion-ally generates hallucinated structures unrelated to the origi-nal video content. Fundamentally, these methods fail to pre-serve the source content observed in the original sequence. In contrast, our method faithfully preserves the source con-tent while maintaining strong spatio-temporal consistency, producing coherent outpainting results even in challenging scenarios. Additional results are provided in Appendix E. Table 1. Quantitative evaluation on DAVIS and YouTube-VOS. Following prior benchmarks, the source videos with different aspect ratios are outpainted to 256×256 resolution. Gray rows indicate methods requiring input-specific adaptation. Method Publication DAVIS YouTube-VOS PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ SSIM ↑ FVD ↓ PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ SSIM ↑ FVD ↓

Dehan [5] CVPRW’22 17.96 0.233 0.627 363.1 - - - -M3DDM [6] ACMMM’23 20.26 0.204 0.708 300.0 20.93 0.186 0.704 266.2 MOTIA [19] ECCV’24 20.36 0.160 0.758 286.3 19.91 0.205 0.64 313.3 Follow-Your-Canvas [2] AAAI’25 20.80 0.160 0.726 242.8 21.01 0.178 0.699 260.1 Li et al. [11] Neurips’25 20.81 0.184 0.725 234.7 - - - -OutDreamer [27] Arxiv’25 20.30 0.174 0.757 268.9 - - - -GlobalPaint [14] Arxiv’26 20.91 0.154 0.762 227.8 - - - -

Ours 21.95 0.141 0.783 218.8 21.89 0.143 0.783 242.8 

Table 2. Ablation on model components. (a). Video diffusion with fine-tuning only; (b). (a) + inpainting completion network with latent propagation; (c). (a) + flow completion network fine-tuning; (d). (c) + refinement module (our complete model). Method PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ SSIM ↑ FVD ↓

(a) 19.42 0.254 0.556 586.3 (b) 20.92 0.195 0.687 355.7 (c) 21.61 0.144 0.742 220.7 (d) 21.95 0.141 0.783 218.8 

5.4. Ablation Study 

To validate the design of Seen-to-Scene, we conduct an ablation study on the DAVIS dataset, as summarized in Table 2. Each component progressively improves spatio-temporal coherence and overall visual quality. The base-line, which fine-tunes only the pre-trained video diffusion model, maintains temporal continuity but struggles to pre-serve the source content, resulting in inconsistent scene lay-outs in the outpainting regions. Introducing latent propaga-tion provides an explicit mechanism for preserving source content by propagating structural cues from the observed re-gions. Even when using a pre-trained flow completion net-work trained for video inpainting, this propagation signifi-cantly improves spatial consistency and scene layout stabil-ity across frames. When the flow completion network is fur-ther fine-tuned for video outpainting, the performance im-proves substantially, highlighting the impact of the domain gap on flow completion quality as illustrated in Fig. 5. Fi-nally, the refinement module yields additional performance gains by suppressing minor artifacts using appearance cues. 

Analysis of Domain Gap. To directly verify the necessity of fine-tuning the flow completion network for the video outpainting, we conduct a qualitative comparison using pixel-level warping results as illustrated in Fig. 6. When us-ing a pre-trained flow completion network trained for video inpainting, the completed flow often exhibits noticeable dis-tortions in the outpainted regions, leading to unrealistic geo-metric deformations and inconsistent object boundaries. In contrast, after fine-tuning the flow completion network for video outpainting, our method produces more reliable flow fields, effectively preserving scene geometry and maintain-ing spatial consistency in the generated regions. Ours  Ours Pre -trained  FCNet Pre -trained  FCNet 

Figure 5. Comparison of flow completion results between an in-painting pre-trained model and our outpainting fine-tuned model. Pre -trained  FCNet  Pre -trained  FCNet Ours  Our s

Figure 6. Visualization of warping results using an inpainting pre-trained and an outpainting fine-tuned flow completion network. 

Analysis of Efficiency. Seen-to-Scene also demonstrates strong computational efficiency. As illustrated in Fig. 2 and Table 3, our latent-level propagation with a reference strat-egy significantly reduces both memory and computational overhead compared to pixel-level or sequential flow com-position, resulting in faster inference. 

Table 3. Inference time and peak memory usage. Method Inference time (s) ↓ Peak memory (GB) ↓

M3DDM 43.127 9.63 MOTIA 373.19 11.98 

Ours 12.109 8.81 

Analysis of Temporal Window Size. We study the impact of the temporal window size m. As shown in Fig. 8, we set Figure 7. Qualitative comparison between Seen-to-Scene and State-of-the-art methods. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

> Temporal Window Size m
> 182.8
> 183.0
> 183.2
> 183.4
> 183.6
> 183.8
> 184.0
> 184.2
> FVD Score

Figure 8. Effect of the temporal window size m on FVD. 

m = 4 in our method, which effectively balances temporal consistency and computational efficiency. 

## 6. Conclusion and Future Work 

In this work, we present Seen-to-Scene, a novel end-to-end framework that unifies propagation-based and diffusion-based paradigms for video outpainting. We further in-troduce an efficient and effective reference-guided latent propagation scheme. By combining propagation-based and generation-based paradigms, our approach achieves spa-tially faithful and temporally consistent results across di-verse scenarios. Extensive qualitative and quantitative re-sults demonstrate that Seen-to-Scene significantly pushes the limits of zero-shot video outpainting. However, our method still has several limitations, including potential de-tail loss introduced by latent-space propagation and the re-liance on implicitly fine-tuning the flow completion net-work. We hope our framework encourages future research toward more robust and scalable video outpainting. Appendix 

## A. Video Inpainting vs. Video Outpainting (a)  Video Inpainting: Object Remova l 

> (b) Video Inpainting: Video Completion

Figure 9. Two settings of video inpainting: (a) Object Removal eliminates dynamic objects and fills background regions; (b) Com-pletion reconstructs locally missing areas within the visible frame. Video  Outpainting 

Figure 10. Conceptual illustration of video outpainting, which generates new regions beyond the original frame. 

Conceptual Difference between VI and VO. As illus-trated in Fig. 9, video inpainting typically falls into two main settings: object removal and completion. The ob-ject removal setting aims to eliminate dynamic foreground objects such as humans or vehicles and fill the resulting holes using motion-consistent background propagation. In contrast, the completion setting assumes corrupted or miss-ing regions caused by occlusions, sensor noise, or editing, and seeks to reconstruct them based on surrounding spatio-temporal context. Both settings share a common character-istic: they operate strictly within the original frame bound-aries, where abundant spatial and temporal information is available from the observed regions. As a result, the task primarily involves filling missing areas using nearby con-text rather than generating unseen content. Moreover, since the reconstruction is constrained to the given resolution, the computational complexity remains stable regardless of frame size, making video inpainting relatively contained in both scope and difficulty. As illustrated in Fig. 10, video outpainting fundamen-tally differs from inpainting in both objective and scope. Instead of restoring corrupted pixels within a given frame, it aims to extend the scene beyond the original field of view, synthesizing unseen structures and motion trajecto-ries that remain unobserved in the input sequence. This re-quires the model to infer plausible geometry, depth, and dy-namics of the environment while maintaining consistency with the visible content. In other words, video outpainting transforms the problem from reconstruction to open-ended generation, demanding reasoning beyond directly observed data. Moreover, unlike inpainting, the computational cost of outpainting scales with the size of the expanded regions, as the model must process increasingly larger spatio-temporal domains during generation. 

Table 4. Quantitative evaluation of ProPainter under the video out-painting setting. Method PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ SSIM ↑ FVD ↓

ProPainter [28] 18.55 0.278 0.673 555.1 RGVI  – Intermediate Propagation Visualization    

> ProPainter -Inpainting -Based Pipeline Applied to Outpainting

Figure 11. Limitations of Inpainting-Based Methods in Video Out-painting. 

Experimental Comparison Between VI and VO. To validate the conceptual distinction between video in-painting and outpainting, we evaluate two representative inpainting-oriented propagation frameworks, RGVI [4] and ProPainter [28], under the outpainting setting. RGVI rep-resents the current state of the art in flow-based propaga-tion, while ProPainter is a widely adopted video inpaint-ing model that integrates flow completion and content re-construction into a unified pipeline. These models serve as strong baselines to analyze how inpainting-specific as-sumptions fail to generalize to the outpainting domain. As shown in Fig. 11, we visualize the internal pixel propaga-tion stage of RGVI, which propagates information across frames. In the outpainting scenario, motion must be ex-trapolated far beyond the observed boundaries, resulting in flow bleeding, distorted warping, and inaccurate motion prediction around scene edges and dynamic objects. These artifacts expose the limitations of inpainting-trained flow completion networks in handling unobserved regions. We further evaluate ProPainter by applying its full inpainting pipeline to the outpainting task. Although it performs well for inpainting, it fails to extend the scene over large un-observed regions. The model cannot generate new struc-tures or motion beyond the original frame boundaries, re-sulting in spatially limited and incoherent generation. This indicates that inpainting-based reconstruction pipelines are inherently constrained by their reliance on visible context and struggle to generalize to large-scale scene expansion. Quantitative results under a 33% horizontal outpainting set-ting further confirm these observations. Table 4 reports sig-nificant degradation in both perceptual and temporal qual-ity when ProPainter is applied to outpainting. The notably poor FVD score indicates severe temporal inconsistency, underscoring the fundamental gap between reconstruction-oriented inpainting and generation-oriented outpainting. 

Implications and Design Motivation. These findings demonstrate that, although propagation mechanisms devel-oped for video inpainting provide useful priors for main-taining temporal consistency, they cannot be directly ap-Current  Reference Frame  (a)  (b)  (c)  (d)     

> Next Reference Candidates Figure 12. Comparison of fixed-stride and similarity-based reference selection. While the fixed-stride method selects frame (d) with redundant content, our method adaptively selects frame (a), which offers more informative cues for outpainting.

plied to video outpainting due to fundamental differences in both domain and objective. In contrast, diffusion-based video outpainting methods primarily rely on generative syn-thesis. While fine-tuning large diffusion models can en-hance perceptual realism, such approaches often overlook structural fidelity and fail to preserve alignment with the original scene layout. We argue that effective video out-painting requires integrating the complementary strengths of both paradigms—the structural reliability of propagation and the generative flexibility of diffusion—while mitigat-ing their respective inefficiencies. To this end, we pro-pose Seen-to-Scene , an efficient propagation-guided diffu-sion framework that unifies structure propagation and con-tent generation within a single diffusion process. 

## B. Reference Frame Selection 

Why reference frames are needed. Video outpainting differs fundamentally from inpainting in that it must gen-erate large outpainting regions while maintaining tempo-ral and spatial coherence. To preserve structural consis-tency across frames, information from previously observed content should be propagated to the expanded regions. However, direct propagation from adjacent frames alone is often insufficient, since nearby frames tend to carry re-dundant information and contribute little to unseen areas. Moreover, propagating sequentially through all intermedi-ate frames leads to excessive computational cost and accu-mulated warping errors. Therefore, selecting a small num-ber of representative reference frames that can provide di-verse structural and motion cues is crucial for efficient and reliable outpainting. 

Reference Frame Selection vs Fixed Stride. To evalu-ate the effectiveness of our reference selection strategy, we compare it against a fixed-stride selection scheme under identical video sequences. In the fixed-stride setting, ref-erence frames are uniformly sampled at constant temporal intervals, regardless of scene dynamics. Such a strategy of-ten leads to redundant reference choices, particularly when camera motion exhibits cyclic behavior (e.g., panning and returning to the same view). As a result, multiple refer-ences may contribute little new information for outpaint-ing and may even fail to capture critical regions that should be propagated. In contrast, our similarity-based selection method adaptively identifies frames that provide comple-mentary and non-redundant information relative to the tar-get frame. This allows the propagation stage to effectively leverage structurally diverse cues from different temporal contexts, especially for expanding unseen regions. As illus-trated in Fig. 5, while the fixed-stride method selects frame (d) as the next reference, our method dynamically chooses frame (a), which contains more relevant and distinctive con-tent for the outpainting area. This example demonstrates that our approach not only reduces redundant references but also enhances the informativeness and diversity of prop-agated content, leading to more consistent and complete video outpainting. 

Effect of window size on reference selection. We fur-ther investigate the impact of the temporal window size 

w used during reference selection. This experiment aims to evaluate whether our adaptive reference selection can maintain comparable performance to full-frame propaga-tion while offering significantly improved computational ef-ficiency. We conduct the evaluation on the DAVIS dataset using 48-frame sequences and measure performance across various window sizes. For comparison, we also include a baseline where propagation is performed for all frames without reference selection. Table 5 shows the quantitative results under different window sizes. Across all settings, the PSNR, SSIM, and LPIPS values remain identical, indi-cating that spatial quality and perceptual similarity are not affected by the choice of window size. This consistency can be attributed to the design of our latent-space propaga-tion. Since propagation occurs within the downsampled la-tent representation rather than at the pixel level, minor vari-ations in reference selection have limited influence on pixel-domain metrics. Latents capture semantically aligned struc-ture and motion cues that are robust to small temporal shifts, resulting in nearly identical spatial quality across different window configurations. However, the FVD scores exhibit slight fluctuations depending on w, reflecting the sensitiv-ity of temporal dynamics to reference selection. The best FVD is obtained with w = 4 , which strikes an effective bal-ance between temporal coverage and motion alignment ac-curacy. When w is too small, reference diversity is reduced, increasing local flow accumulation errors. In contrast, ex-cessively large windows include frames with greater motion variation, which introduces minor misalignment across long temporal gaps. This trade-off explains the gentle U-shaped Table 5. Quantitative evaluation and efficiency analysis of different window sizes for reference selection on the DAVIS dataset Window Size ( w) PSNR ↑ LPIPS ↓ SSIM ↑ FVD ↓ Num. of Refs ↓                                         

> All Frames 21.65 0.151 0.767 183.19 70.65
> w= 2 21.65 0.151 0.767 183.49 36.03
> w= 3 21.65 0.151 0.767 183.05 26.46
> w= 4 21.65 0.151 0.767 182.93 20.15
> w= 5 21.65 0.151 0.767 183.43 15.92
> w= 6 21.65 0.151 0.767 183.98 13.49
> w= 7 21.65 0.151 0.767 184.08 11.65

trend in FVD as w increases, confirming that our method achieves optimal temporal coherence at w = 4 .

Efficiency of Reference selection. Across all DAVIS se-quences, the average video length is approximately 70.65 frames. As shown in Table 5, the number of selected ref-erences gradually decreases as the temporal window size w

increases. This indicates that our method performs efficient reference sampling without the need to propagate through every frame sequentially. Instead, it achieves the same tem-poral coverage using a significantly smaller set of key refer-ence frames, reducing redundant propagation while main-taining the necessary contextual information for outpaint-ing. 

## C. Flow Completion Network (FCNet) 

Domain gap between inpainting and outpainting. Al-though flow completion networks trained for video inpaint-ing can effectively estimate motion within observed re-gions, they exhibit notable instability when applied to video outpainting. This discrepancy stems from a fundamental domain gap between the two tasks. Inpainting assumes dense visual context within bounded regions, where the net-work can infer missing motion based on adjacent observa-tions. In contrast, outpainting involves large unobserved ar-eas beyond the original frame boundaries, requiring motion extrapolation into entirely unseen regions. Consequently, inpainting-trained flow completion models tend to produce unreliable predictions near boundary extensions, resulting in warped distortions, spatial discontinuities, and incom-plete motion fields in the extrapolated zones. These artifacts propagate across frames and severely degrade temporal con-sistency in the generated videos. 

Flow Visualization and Analysis. To further analyze the effect of domain adaptation, we visualize the flow comple-tion results obtained from the inpainting pre-trained model and our outpainting fine-tuned version, as shown in Fig. 13. For a fair comparison, both models are trained without ref-erence frame selection and follow the same training config-uration. It is important to note that the goal of our flow com-pletion is not to hallucinate flow in unseen source regions, but to accurately complete motion in the areas necessary for warping during propagation. The objective is therefore to generate stable and geometrically consistent motion fields that enable reliable information transfer from source to out-painting regions. The inpainting pre-trained flow comple-tion network exhibits severe flow bleeding near boundary extensions or dynamic objects, where dynamic object mo-tion incorrectly propagates into static background regions. In addition, its flow fields tend to rapidly lose magnitude toward the unobserved regions, indicating that the model struggles to infer motion continuity beyond visible bound-aries. This limitation results in warped artifacts and incom-plete propagation in the final outpainted frames. In con-trast, our fine-tuned outpainting-specific flow completion network produces flow fields that are both spatially consis-tent and semantically aware of scene structure. Dynamic and static regions are clearly separated. Dynamic object motion is confined within its boundaries, and background flow remains stable without undesired bleeding. Moreover, the flow strength is maintained smoothly across extrapo-lated areas, allowing motion trajectories to extend naturally into the outpainting space. These results confirm that fine-tuning under the outpainting setting effectively adapts the flow completion process to handle large-scale scene expan-sion while preventing inter-region interference. 

Propagated Results Visualization and Analysis. To di-rectly verify the necessity of fine-tuning the flow comple-tion network for the video outpainting domain, we con-duct a qualitative comparison using pixel-level warping re-sults, as illustrated in Fig. 14. Specifically, we propagate source content using two flow completion networks: (i) pre-trained for video inpainting and (ii) fine-tuned under the outpainting setting. For clarity of visualization, the warp-ing is performed at the pixel level rather than in the latent space. When the inpainting-pretrained network is used, the propagation fails to extend accurately over large unobserved regions, resulting in incomplete motion transfer and sig-nificant spatial distortion near the extrapolated boundaries. This limitation arises because inpainting-trained models are optimized for local completion within visible regions and thus cannot extrapolate motion trajectories beyond the orig-inal field of view. As a consequence, even source-visible structures are often misaligned or missing in the propa-gated results, and the distortion becomes more pronounced as the distance from the original frame increases. More-over, unstable flow estimation for dynamic objects leads to trajectory ghosting and flow bleeding artifacts, produc-ing residual trails and inconsistent motion patterns. In con-trast, when the flow completion network is fine-tuned on the video outpainting setting, the propagated content is spatially Fine -Tuned 

FCNet (VO) 

Pre -trained 

FCNet (VI) 

Fine -Tuned 

FCNet (VO) 

Pre -trained 

FCNet (VI) 

Fine -Tuned 

FCNet (VO) 

Pre -trained 

FCNet (VI) Figure 13. Visualization of flow completion results. Our outpainting fine-tuned model produces geometrically stable and semantically separated motion fields compared to inpainting-pretrained flow completion. 

coherent and extends seamlessly into the expanded regions. The fine-tuned model learns to infer long-range and cross-boundary motion more robustly, resulting in stable propaga-tion even for highly dynamic scenes. As shown in Fig. 14, this adaptation effectively mitigates flow bleeding and geo-metric distortion, demonstrating that domain-specific fine-tuning is crucial for reliable motion estimation in video out-painting. 

C.1. Latent Propagation 

Reference-guided latent propagation. Instead of accu-mulating flow information across all intermediate frames, we utilize only a compact set of reference frames. Each reference frame is carefully selected to maximize informa-tional diversity and to provide complementary content for the outpainting regions of the target frame. This design re-places dense sequential propagation with sparse, targeted correspondence, significantly reducing both temporal de-pendency length and the number of warping operations re-quired. Formally, the computational complexity is reduced from O(N 2) pairwise propagation to O(N · R), where R

is the small number of reference frames ( R ≪ N ). By re-stricting propagation to this compact set, redundant frame-to-frame accumulation is eliminated, which not only mit-igates flow drift and error compounding but also leads to substantial improvements in runtime efficiency. Fine -Tuned FCNet (VO)  Pre -trained FCNet (VI)  Fine -Tuned FCNet (VO)  Pre -trained FCNet (VI) Figure 14. Visualization of pixel-level warping using different flow completion networks. Our outpainting fine-tuned model achieves stable propagation, while the inpainting pre-trained model fails to propagate content effectively to outpainting regions. 

C.2. Latent Refinement 

To refine warped multi-frame latents for video outpaint-ing, we introduce a dual-branch refinement module that op-erates directly on the warped latent, the reference latent, and their associated binary masks. In the first branch, we concatenate the reference latent, the warped context latent, an outpainting mask, and a valid-warp mask, and use a lightweight CNN to predict spatially varying offsets and modulation masks for a deformable convolution, enabling the network to adaptively resample informative neighbors while implicitly correcting local misalignments in latent space. In parallel, a second branch processes the refer-ence latent, warped latent, and outpainting mask using stan-dard convolutions to produce a complementary refinement signal that emphasizes appearance and structural consis-tency around the outpainted regions. The outputs of the two branches are summed and passed through an additional convolutional layer to yield a refined latent, allowing the network to learn how to locally fuse deformation-aware and content-aware evidence. While we employ predicted opti-cal flow to obtain the initial warped latents, our refinement module deliberately avoids using flow at this stage; instead, it learns offsets directly in latent space conditioned on vis-ibility and outpainting masks. This design choice contrasts with prior refinement strategies that explicitly rely on op-tical flow fields, and is particularly important in the out-painting setting, where the predicted flow must be extrap-olated into unobserved regions, making flow-based refine-ment susceptible to residual misalignments and artifacts. For bi-directional propagation, we apply the same refine-ment module independently to the forward-propagated and 𝐼 𝑖 +𝑘 𝐼 𝑖 +𝑘 −1             

> ሶ
> 𝐼 𝑖 +𝑘 −1𝐼 𝑖 +𝑘 −2
> ሶ
> 𝐼 𝑖 +2𝐼 𝑖 +1
> …
> ሶ
> 𝐼 𝑖
> 𝐼 𝑖 ሶ𝐼 𝑖 +1
> (a)
> ሶ
> 𝑍 𝑖
> 𝑍 𝑖 ሶ𝑍 𝑟 +(𝑖 )
> 𝑍 𝑟 +(𝑖 )ሶ𝑍 𝑟 +𝑖 +1
> ሶ
> 𝑍 𝑟 +𝑖 +𝑘 𝑍 𝑟 +𝑖 +𝑘 −1
> …
> (b)

Figure 15. Visualization of propagation strategies. (a) Con-ventional sequential propagation accumulates flow across all inter-mediate frames, while (b) our reference-guided latent propagation performs efficient warping using only selected references in the latent space. FW Propagated Latent       

> Original Latent
> Original VO Mask
> FW Propagated
> Region Mask
> 𝐶 CONV
> Offset
> Mask
> DCN
> 𝐶 CONV
> Offset
> Mask
> DCN
> CONV
> CONV
> 𝑆
> 𝑆 1 x 1
> CONV
> 1 x 1
> CONV
> Fuse
> Bi -Directional
> Propagated Latent
> 𝐶 𝑆 : Concatenation : Sum
> Original Latent
> Original VO Mask
> BW Propagated
> Region Mask
> BWPropagated Latent

Figure 16. Architecture of the latent refinement module. It refines propagated latent features through spatial alignment and residual correction, enhancing temporal consistency and visual co-herence in the outpainted video. 

backward-propagated latents obtained from bi-directional warping, and then concatenate the two refined latents and pass them through a final convolutional layer to produce a unified, refined bi-directional propagation latent. By decou-pling refinement from explicit flow and aggregating forward and backward evidence through content-adaptive latent off-sets, our approach mitigates the propagation of errors from imperfect flow and yields propagated latents that are struc-turally well aligned between the source content and the bi-directionally warped regions. 

Algorithm 1 Reference-Guided Latent Propagation 

1: Input: Video Sequence {I0, I 1, . . . , I T −1},

2: Mask Sequence {M0, M 1, . . . , M T −1},

3: Window size w

4: Output: Latent Sequence {Z0, Z 1, . . . , Z T −1}

5: Initialize: R = {I0}, c = 0 

6: while c < T − 1 do 

7: Define W = {Ic+1 , . . . , I c+w}

8: Select r = arg min Ij ∈W SSIM (g(Ic), g(Ij )) 

9: Append r to R; c ← r

10: end while 

11: Flow Extraction and Completion 

12: for i = 0 , . . . , T − 1 do 

13: for each reference frame r > i do 

14: Accumulate flow Fr→i = Fr→r−1◦· · ·◦ Fi+1 →i

15: Propagate latent feature zr via Fr→i to zi

16: Propagate mask mr via Fr→i to mi

17: zaligned i = A(zorig i , z prop i , m orig i , m prop i )

18: end for 

19: for each reference frame r < i do 

20: Accumulate flow Fr→i = Fr→r−1◦· · ·◦ Fi+1 →i

21: Propagate latent feature zr via Fr→i to zi

22: Propagate mask mr via Fr→i to mi

23: zaligned i = A(zorig i , z prop i , m orig i , m prop i )

24: end for 

25: end for 

26: for i = 0 , . . . , T − 1 do 

27: Zi = F(zaligned,F W i , z aligned,BW i )

28: end for 

C.3. Pseudo Code for Latent Propagation 

For clarity, we also provide the pseudo code in Algorithm 1 summarizes the overall process of our Reference-Guided Latent Propagation. Here, I denotes the input video frame sequence and M represents the corresponding outpainting mask sequence that specifies outpainting regions to be gen-erated. W denotes a local temporal window used to select reference candidates, and R indicates the selected refer-ence frame set. F represents the optical flow field between frames, where FW and BW correspond to forward and back-ward directions in the temporal domain, respectively. Each 

zi refers to a latent extracted from the corresponding frame, and Zi denotes the final bidirectionally fused latent feature of frame i. The alignment module A aligns propagated and original latent features using the propagated masks m, and 

F denotes the fusion operator that integrates forward and backward aligned features to produce temporally consistent latent representations. D. Details of Video Diffusion Models 

D.1. Inference Stage 

During inference, we replace the ground-truth latent used in training with a randomly initialized Gaussian noise, drawn from a standard normal distribution, as the initial condi-tional latent. This noise serves as the starting point for generation, enabling the diffusion model to generate unseen content beyond the original frame boundary. To maintain structural and temporal coherence, the propagated latent features obtained from the reference-guided latent propaga-tion are concatenated with the noise latent along the chan-nel dimension. This concatenated representation provides both generative flexibility and spatial guidance, allowing the model to produce realistic and consistent outpainting content. No text prompts or additional conditioning sig-nals are used during inference. Unlike prior diffusion-based approaches [2, 6, 19], we do not perform any fine-tuning, test-sample-specific optimization, complex inference strat-egy, or post-processing refinement. Our framework oper-ates in a purely feed-forward manner, relying solely on the propagation-driven structural priors to achieve coherent and temporally stable video outpainting. 

D.2. Extension to Long Video Outpainting 

Sampling a long video sequence in a single diffusion pass requires excessive memory and restricts the effective tem-poral context available to the model. To alleviate this limi-tation, we utilize a sliding-window-based sampling strategy that enables scalable inference while preserving temporal consistency. Given a video of length T , we define a set of overlapping temporal windows V = {[si, e i)}Ni=1 , where each window satisfies ei − si ≤ W , and adjacent windows overlap with a stride S. At each diffusion timestep tk, we apply the U-Net to every window independently and then average the per-frame noise predictions to obtain a unified global noise estimate: 

ϵt = 1

|V (t)|

X

> i:t∈[si,e i)

ϵ(i) 

> t

, (7) where V(t) denotes the set of windows that include frame 

t. The averaged ϵ1: T is then passed once to the scheduler’s update step to refine the entire latent sequence. 

## E. YouTube-VOS Test Set 

To ensure transparency and reproducibility, we disclose the list of sequences used from the YouTube-VOS test set. Un-like prior works [2, 6, 19, 23] that did not explicitly specify their evaluation subset, we randomly selected 60 sequences without any subjective bias to provide a fair and diverse benchmark for evaluating generalization performance. We release these sequence identifiers to facilitate future re-search, fair comparison, and reproducibility of our results. 

0c7a4680db, 0d349f8286, 2e21c7e59b 2e129b0b09, 3b72dc1941, 3f2012d518 4b31a18d91, 4f5b3310e3, 5c3d2d3155 06a5dfb511, 6a75316e99, 6cced81d30 7daa6343e6, 8dea7458de, 9c4419eb12 13c3cea202, 24e2b52a4d, 37b4ec2e1a 37dc952545, 45fd60997a, 54ad024bb3 83a5056a16, 95ef69d827, 97b38cabcc 97fa40286c, 397dccb3a0, 459e70cd8e 03664dc880, 4035d3275c, 9787f452bf 40718bb478, 90949b2059, 547416bda1 607001c98f, 1320830fd2, 4348676053 6031809500, a9839ec6f2, ac4653b61d b8bd20a472, b175cd8138, b492f67a89 b715879d5a, ba5dde67e9, c9ef04fe59 c16d9a4ade, cbea8f6bea, d1dd586cfd d7ff44ea97, d59c093632, da9713ef3e dab44991de, dc197289ef, e10236eb37 e1925724ab, eb49ce8027, f9eedb8691 f58212429d, fab725059c, fb104c286f 

## F. Additional Results 

To demonstrate the robustness and temporal coherence of our approach, we present multiple frame samples generated from various sequences under different scenarios in Fig. 17. The results include both static and moving camera settings, single and multiple dynamic objects, and scenes contain-ing humans, animals, and complex natural environments. Across these diverse cases, our method consistently pro-duces temporally coherent and visually realistic outpaint-ing results, preserving scene structure and motion continu-ity without noticeable flickering or spatial inconsistency. We further visualize our approach under varying out-put resolutions, aspect ratios and outpainting direction. As shown in Figure 18, our model effectively adapts to spa-tially expanded canvases, preserving coherent scene geom-etry and temporal consistency even at wide outpainting ra-tios. These results demonstrate that the proposed frame-work generalizes well beyond the training resolution, pro-ducing stable and high-quality content across diverse spatial configurations. 

## G. Supplementary Video Demonstrations. 

We additionally provide demo videos in the supplementary materials, showcasing qualitative comparisons between our method and other existing approaches under identical ex-perimental conditions. Our results exhibit realistic visual synthesis with superior temporal consistency and structural coherence, while effectively suppressing hallucination arti-facts across diverse scenarios. Figure 17. Qualitative results of our method across diverse scenarios and environments. The examples demonstrate the robustness and generalization capability of our model in handling various motion patterns, scene complexities, and outpainting configurations. Figure 18. Qualitative results across different spatial resolutions and aspect ratios. Our method maintains consistent visual quality and structure from 256 × 256 to extended formats such as 256 × 512 and 256 × 768 .Acknowledgement . This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT)(No. RS-2024-00340745) and Korea Institute of Sci-ence and Technology (KIST) Institutional Program (26E0062). 

## References 

[1] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127 , 2023. 2, 6 [2] Qihua Chen, Yue Ma, Hongfa Wang, Junkun Yuan, Wenzhe Zhao, Qi Tian, Hongmei Wang, Shaobo Min, Qifeng Chen, and Wei Liu. Follow-your-canvas: Higher-resolution video outpainting with extensive content generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01055 , 2024. 2, 3, 6, 7, 15 [3] Tsai-Shien Chen, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ekaterina Deyneka, Hsiang-wei Chao, Byung Eun Jeon, Yuwei Fang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Ming-Hsuan Yang, et al. Panda-70m: Captioning 70m videos with multiple cross-modality teachers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,pages 13320–13331, 2024. 6 [4] Suhwan Cho, Seoung Wug Oh, Sangyoun Lee, and Joon-Young Lee. Elevating flow-guided video inpainting with ref-erence generation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , pages 2527–2535, 2025. 1, 2, 3, 5, 9[5] Lo¨ ıc Dehan, Wiebe Van Ranst, Patrick Vandewalle, and Toon Goedem´ e. Complete and temporally consistent video out-painting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 687–695, 2022. 1, 3, 7 [6] Fanda Fan, Chaoxu Guo, Litong Gong, Biao Wang, Tiezheng Ge, Yuning Jiang, Chunjie Luo, and Jianfeng Zhan. Hierar-chical masked 3d diffusion model for video outpainting. In 

Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Multimedia , pages 7890–7900, 2023. 2, 3, 6, 7, 15 [7] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising dif-fusion probabilistic models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:6840–6851, 2020. 2 [8] Diederik P Kingma. Adam: A method for stochastic opti-mization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980 , 2014. 6 [9] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-tional bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114 , 2013. 4 [10] Minhyeok Lee, Suhwan Cho, Chajin Shin, Jungho Lee, Sunghun Yang, and Sangyoun Lee. Video diffusion models are strong video inpainter. In Proceedings of the AAAI Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence , pages 4526–4533, 2025. 1 [11] Ruilin Li, Hang Yu, and Jiayan Qiu. Dynamic shadow un-veils invisible semantics for video outpainting. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems . 2, 3, 7 [12] Zhen Li, Cheng-Ze Lu, Jianhua Qin, Chun-Le Guo, and Ming-Ming Cheng. Towards an end-to-end framework for flow-guided video inpainting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 17562–17571, 2022. 1, 3 [13] Takuya Murakawa, Takumi Fukuzawa, Ning Ding, and Toru Tamaki. M3ddm+: An improved video outpaint-ing by a modified masking strategy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.11048 , 2026. 2 [14] Yueming Pan, Ruoyu Feng, Jianmin Bao, Chong Luo, and Nanning Zheng. Globalpaint: Spatiotemporal coherent video outpainting with global feature guidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.06413 , 2026. 2, 7 [15] Federico Perazzi, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Brian McWilliams, Luc Van Gool, Markus Gross, and Alexander Sorkine-Hornung. A benchmark dataset and evaluation methodology for video object segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 724–732, 2016. 6 [16] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj¨ orn Ommer. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 10684–10695, 2022. 4 [17] Zachary Teed and Jia Deng. Raft: Recurrent all-pairs field transforms for optical flow. In European conference on com-puter vision , pages 402–419. Springer, 2020. 4, 5 [18] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach, Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly. To-wards accurate generative models of video: A new metric & challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.01717 , 2018. 6 [19] Fu-Yun Wang, Xiaoshi Wu, Zhaoyang Huang, Xiaoyu Shi, Dazhong Shen, Guanglu Song, Yu Liu, and Hongsheng Li. Be-your-outpainter: Mastering video outpainting through input-specific adaptation. In European Conference on Com-puter Vision , pages 153–168. Springer, 2024. 2, 3, 6, 7, 15 [20] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P Si-moncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing ,13(4):600–612, 2004. 5, 6 [21] Ning Xu, Linjie Yang, Yuchen Fan, Jianchao Yang, Dingcheng Yue, Yuchen Liang, Brian Price, Scott Cohen, and Thomas Huang. Youtube-vos: Sequence-to-sequence video object segmentation. In Proceedings of the Euro-pean conference on computer vision (ECCV) , pages 585– 601, 2018. 6 [22] Rui Xu, Xiaoxiao Li, Bolei Zhou, and Chen Change Loy. Deep flow-guided video inpainting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 3723–3732, 2019. 3 [23] Zhongrui Yu, Martina Megaro-Boldini, Robert W Sumner, and Abdelaziz Djelouah. Unboxed: Geometrically and tem-porally consistent video outpainting. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 7309–7319, 2025. 2, 3, 6, 15 [24] Kaidong Zhang, Jingjing Fu, and Dong Liu. Flow-guided transformer for video inpainting. In European conference on computer vision , pages 74–90. Springer, 2022. 1 [25] Kaidong Zhang, Jingjing Fu, and Dong Liu. Inertia-guided flow completion and style fusion for video inpainting. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vi-sion and pattern recognition , pages 5982–5991, 2022. 1 [26] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shecht-man, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-tion , pages 586–595, 2018. 6 [27] Linhao Zhong, Fan Li, Yi Huang, Jianzhuang Liu, Ren-jing Pei, and Fenglong Song. Outdreamer: Video out-painting with a diffusion transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.22298 , 2025. 2, 7 [28] Shangchen Zhou, Chongyi Li, Kelvin CK Chan, and Chen Change Loy. Propainter: Improving propagation and transformer for video inpainting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision ,pages 10477–10486, 2023. 1, 3, 4, 5, 9